this Law determines the legal, economic and organisational framework for activities in Ukrainian seaports . Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority shall mean a state enterprise established under the law . seaport authority shall be responsible for ensuring the safety of navigation, manoeuvring and berthing of vessels. port infrastructure facilities shall mean movable and immovable facilities that ensure the seaport operation . roadstead shall mean part of seaport waters used for riding at anchor, including for repair of vessels, boarding (disembarking) of passengers, carrying out of loading and unloading works . port operator (stevedoring company) shall mean business entity that operates a marine terminal . seaport territory shall mean a part of the land territory of Ukraine with determined boundaries, including artificially created land plots . this Law shall regulate the activities of the executive authorities providing government regulation, management, state supervision and oversight . the legislation on seaports shall be based on the Constitution of Ukraine . if an international treaty ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine provides for other rules than those contained in this Law, the rules of that treaty shall apply . seaports shall operate and develop under the following principles: 1) uniting interests and activity of the State, represented by the seaport harbour master service . the Register of Seaports of Ukraine is an electronic database of seaports . it is intended to provide data required to perform tasks in the field of navigation safety, environmental protection, as well as for state supervision (oversight) access to the information of the register is open and free of charge . the basis for the port industry development shall be the 25-years’ Ukraine Seaports Development Strategy, including short-term (5 years), medium-term (10 years), and long-term (25 years) development plans . development plan of each seaport shall be approved by the Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority . seaport territory may be extended by artificially created land plots . owners (users) of land plots included in the seaport territory must comply with the Guide to Seaport and mandatory port regulations . information on seaport boundaries shall be published in Notices to Mariners of Ukraine . maritime security services and seaport security units shall operate under the regulation thereon . regime of stay in the seaport with the engagement of third-party security services shall be supported on a contractual basis in accordance with the law . border crossing points of the state border of Ukraine shall be opened on the territory of seaports and marine terminals, through which international communication is carried out . border and customs control zones shall be established within seaports (marine terminals) certification of goods and other operations, not directly related to the passage of passengers, vehicles and cargo, may not be carried out in zones . the Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority and business entities operating in the seaport must take immediate measures to eliminate the consequences of natural disasters, accidents and catastrophes . government regulation of the operation in seaports shall be provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of maritime and river transport . in case of man-made or natural disasters, the relevant central and local executive bodies, military command and local authorities may use berths . the competence of the cabinet in terms of port activities shall include: ensuring safety of navigation, as well as life and health of citizens . ensuring the implementation of state policy in the field of port operation, directing and coordinating the activities of ministries and other central executive authorities . determining of the seaports open to foreign vessels; approval of the Ukraine Seaports Development Strategy . navigation within seaport waters shall be organised on the basis of the distribution of functions of navigation safety . navigation safety within seaport waters shall be provided by owners of marine terminals and hydraulic structures, ship-owners, as well as other business entities operating at the seaport . the Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority shall be established with the following purposes: 1) maintenance and ensuring effective use of the state property transferred to it . the head of the Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority is appointed and dismissed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of maritime and river transport . the operation of the seaport authorities of Ukraine shall be financed at the expense of the port levies charged by the port hereunder, service fees and rent . mandatory port regulations shall be binding on all legal entities and individuals located within the seaport after their mandatory state registration and publication in the Notices to Mariners of Ukraine . they must include procedures for navigation of vessels in seaport waters, canals and fairways . the procedures for border, customs, phytosanitary, veterinary and sanitary control, government control over compliance with legislation must meet international standards . mandatory port regulations shall be subject to mandatory state registration . economic activity at seaports shall be carried out in accordance with the legislation . port operators may not take actions that may adversely affect the competitive environment . business entities operating within the seaport may dispose of their property at their own discretion . special (free) economic zones or a special investment regime may be established . services for the maintenance of vessels, cargo operations, passenger service and other services provided by law are rendered at seaports . business entities engaged in economic activity at a seaport shall be liable for non-compliance with the requirements of maritime safety, labour safety, as well as fire, sanitary and environmental safety legislation . tariffs for specialised services rendered at the seaport by natural monopolies and services paid as part of port levies shall be subject to government regulation . the tonnage due shall be charged in favour of the harbour user, as well as the owner of the operating waters of ??the berth (berths) built before the enactment of this Law . in case of misuse of funds from port fees, the entity that committed such a violation shall pay to the State Budget of Ukraine a fine of 200 per cent of the amount of port levies used for other purposes . strategic port infrastructure facilities existing as of the enforcement date hereof shall not be subject to lease or concession . facilities of public-private partnership, including concessions, may be berths, piers, rail and road access roads, communication lines, heat, gas, water and electricity supply facilities . such facilities shall be transferred to a private partner or concessionaire together with lifting, transport and other equipment that provides loading/unloading and storage of cargo . state-owned strategic port infrastructure facilities and other state property assigned to the Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority shall be possessed by it on the right of economic management . land plots within a seaport may be in state, municipal and private property . the privatisation targets shall include: . acquiring and constructing new seaports; . building and maintaining existing seaport facilities and ensuring their safety and security . unified property complexes of state enterprises and shares of joint stock companies shall be subject to sale on a competitive basis . berths that technologically provide the completed cycle of services shall be leased to such a company for up to 49 years without a tender . private investments into port infrastructure facilities under separate agreements may be privatised . private investment in state-owned port infrastructure facilities within the seaport shall be under concession agreements, joint venture agreements, lease agreements, and/or other types of investment agreements . land plots where the unified property complex of such a company and berths technologically providing the completed cycle of services are located may be leased to the economic company for up to 49 years . investments made by business entities shall be compensated under relevant agreements concluded by the Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority and investors . seaport waters (harbour) shall mean a part of a water object (objects) determined by the boundaries, except fairway designated for safe approach, manoeuvring, berthing and departure of vessels . in the Merchant Shipping Code of Ukraine, the words “rescue and pilotage service” shall be replaced by the words "rescue service and enterprise providing pilotage services" part 1 of Article 12 shall be revised to read as follows: “Allocation of land and water areas for merchant shipping, for the implementation of construction projects” clauses 2 and 3, Part 5 of Article 14 shall be amended to read: “2) in Section IV “Navigation in the Territorial Sea, Inland Waters and Seaport Waters” – to non-military seaports of Ukraine . in Articles 73–79, the words “and the seaport harbour master” shall be deleted owners (users) of marine terminals, ship-owners and other business entities, operating within the territory and water area of the seaport, shall ensure the safety of navigation . harbour master is responsible for carrying out state supervision over safety . navigational and hydrographic support for navigation in inland waters, territorial sea and exclusive maritime economic zone of Ukraine . a seaport harbour master shall have the right to impose administrative penalties . he shall monitor compliance with maritime legislation and regulations, as well as international maritime treaties . his orders shall be binding for all vessels, legal entities and individuals . in paragraph 1, Part 1 of Article 80, the word “chief” shall be replaced by “master” . in Article 81, the word “chief” shall be replaced by the word "master" in Articles 83, 84, 86—89 shall be deleted . in Article 90: in Part 4, the words “in agreement with the central executive body in the field of fisheries” in the text of the Article, the words "seaport harbour master service" shall be removed . the title of Chapter 3 shall be amended to read as follows: "Chapter 3: Pilotage of Vessels" in Article 102, the words “for incorrect notification of draft, length and width of the vessel or its capacity” shall be replaced by “for providing inaccurate information, including by technical means” . in Part 2 of Article 116, the word “relevant port in charge of” shall also be deleted . if a seaport harbour master service is established in a port, it shall be deemed to be a service provided by the relevant port harbour master . seaport harbour master shall determine a sufficient time, as appropriate, for the recovery of the property . seaport administration shall publish information about the time period set for recovery of sunken property in the notices to Mariners of Ukraine . if the flag state is known, the seaport authority shall send the relevant notification to the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of external affairs . water fund lands shall be provided for permanent use to: a) state-owned water management organisations for the care of water objects, shoreline protection belts, right-of-way zones, hydraulic structures, etc . in Part 1 of Article 156, the word “management” shall be replaced by the words “seaport harbour master”; in part 5 of article 167 the word "ports" shall be deleted . b) in the Land Code of Ukraine, the words "in port waters by the chief of executive authorities or local governments may lease to citizens and legal entities from the water fund-land . water fund lands may be referred to the lands of maritime and river transport in the manner prescribed by the law . land plots artificially created within the shoreline protection belt or the right-of-way zone shall not be subject to lease . specialised services at river, seaports, sea fishing ports and airports in accordance with the list determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . state enterprises–seaports and other sea transport enterprises, to which the definition of the term “marine terminal” applies, shall be subject to inclusion in the seaport, the waters of which they use, or into the boundaries of the relevant seaport . border crossing points at the state border of Ukraine and border and customs control zones opened before the enactment of this Law shall continue to operate within the respective seaports . implementation of this law shall not result in early termination of agreements on the use of port infrastructure facilities . underwater hydraulic structures (canals, operating waters of berths, etc.) located within seaport waters shall be subject to transfer on a compensatory basis . ensuring the creation of a state management and control system in the field of seaports . ensure the inventory of the property of state enterprises–seaports and strategic port infrastructure facilities . organise the collection of information on private business entities related to the servicing of vessels, passengers and cargo .