based on the provisions of the Constitution (Fundamental Law) of Ukraine, the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine "On economic independence of the Ukrainian SSR" intending to introduce the legal regulation of all types of foreign economic activity in Ukraine . re-export means sale to foreign business entities and export outside Ukraine of goods that were previously imported into the territory of Ukraine . foreign economic activity – activities of business entities of Ukraine and foreign businesses, as well as state customers under defence order . quotas set for goods not indicating specific countries (groups of countries) to which goods are exported or from which they are imported . customs regulation – regulation of issues related to the establishment of duties and other taxes charged when goods are moved across the customs border of Ukraine . import (export) licence – permission for export (import) of goods within a certain period (but not less than one month) determining their total volume . international co-operation – interaction of two or more business entities, at least one of which is foreign . moment of export (import) contract – moment at which all obligations under the specified contract have been fulfilled . restrictive business practice – taking individual or collective measures aimed at restriction on competition and monopolisation of production, sharing, exchange, consumption of goods . permanent residence – place in the territory of any state where an individual has resided for at least one year and intend to keep residing in that state for an unlimited period . joint entrepreneurial (economic) activity – activity based on co-operation between business entities of Ukraine and foreign business entities . loss of profit – income or profit that could have been obtained by foreign economic activity entities in case of foreign economic operation . foreign economic activity entities in Ukraine shall be: – individuals – citizens of Ukraine, foreign nationals and stateless persons who have civil legal capacity under the laws of Ukraine and permanently reside in the territory of Ukraine . legal entities registered as such in Ukraine and having a permanent location in the territory of Ukraine . legal entities whose property and/or capital is entirely owned by foreign business entities . foreign economic activity conducted in Ukraine by entities of this activity include: – export and import of goods, capital and labour . all foreign economic activity entities shall have equal right to conduct foreign economic activities . this includes currency operations and settlements in foreign currency with foreign business entities that are not directly prohibited by the legislation . individuals with permanent residence in the territory of Ukraine shall have the specified right if they are registered as entrepreneurs . legal entities shall be entitled to conduct foreign economic activity under their statutory documents from the moment they acquire the status of a legal entity . interference of state authorities . in cases not provided for by this Law, including by issuing subordinate acts that create . conditions for its implementation worse than those established by this law, shall be a restriction . branches and representative offices of foreign banks shall be accredited by the National Bank of Ukraine under the Law of Ukraine “On Banks and Banking” . to register a representative office of a foreign business entity in the territory of Ukraine, it is necessary to submit: – application for registration . power of attorney for representative functions shall be notarised at the place of issuance . foreign economic activity entities shall be entitled to conclude any types of foreign economic agreements (contracts), except for those prohibited directly or exclusively by the laws of Ukraine . in case the specified activity is related to foreign investments, it shall be regulated by the relevant laws of Ukrainian . a foreign economic agreement (contract) may be declared invalid by the court if it does not meet the requirements of the laws of Ukraine or international agreements of Ukraine . exchange (barter) operations of foreign economic activity entities shall be subject to licensing by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of economic development . the following legal regimes for foreign business entities shall include: – national regime . most-favoured-nation regime shall be granted to business entities of other states . special regime applied to the territories of special economic zones under Article 24 of this Law . the most-favoured-nation regime concerns duties, rules of its collection, rules and formalities in connection with imports . Exceptions may be made for goods originating from the states with which Ukraine has concluded free trade or customs union agreements . the verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall be the highest body for state regulation of foreign economic activity . Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall: – take measures to implement a foreign economic policy of Ukraine under the laws of Ukraine . – co-ordinate the operation of trade missions of Ukraine in foreign states . the National Bank of Ukraine shall store and use the gold and foreign exchange reserve of Ukraine and other state valuables that ensure the solvency of Ukraine . the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of economic development shall ensure a unified foreign economic policy when the foreign economic activity entities enter the foreign market . local authorities and their executive authorities shall operate as foreign economic activity entities only through foreign economic commercial organisations established by them . tax rates shall be set and abolished by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine upon the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the stability of the types number and tax amount shall be guaranteed by the state for a period not less than 5 years . it is prohibited to apply simultaneously export-import tax and licensing and quotation regimes to the same goods . the territory of Ukraine shall be a common customs area where the customs regulations of Ukraine apply . export operations with scrap metal shall be carried out under this Law taking into account the specifics defined by the laws of Ukraine “On Scrap Metal” and “On Export Duty on Ferrous Metal Waste and Scrap” as a state, Ukraine shall be liable for the actions of its customs authorities under Article 34 of this Law . if the specified documents are not officially published, they shall not enter into force . crediting to foreign economic transactions in the currency effective in the territory of Ukraine and in foreign currency shall be carried out based on agreement and on the terms agreed between creditors and credit recipients in credit agreements (contracts) all credits other than settlement ones shall be secured by the property belonging to the debtor under the right of ownership and/or their non-property rights . the bank for foreign economic activity of Ukraine shall notify the applicant for state credit of its decision within one month from the submission date of specified application . foreign economic activity entities that grant credits to foreign business entities or receive credits from them shall send to the National Bank of Ukraine information on these credits . insurance of foreign economic operations shall be carried out in Ukraine on a contractual basis . automatic export (import) licensing as an administrative procedure of licence execution and issue shall not have a restrictive influence . export licensing of goods shall be introduced in case of imbalance of certain goods on the domestic market that are essential for life in Ukraine . export licensing shall be temporary and applied until the balance is restored . automatic import licensing may be withdrawn if circumstances which were the ground for its introduction cease to exist . import licensing of goods shall be introduced in case of sharp deterioration in the balance of payments and external payments . such licensing shall be temporary and applied for a period that makes it possible to prevent significant harm or to compensate for significant harm caused to the national producers . one type of licence only may be established for each type of goods . licences shall be issued based on applications of foreign economic activity entities . applicants shall apply to one executive authority to obtain a licence . licence applications shall be considered in the order of their receipt . licence shall be issued based on an application within the quota, indicating the validity period of the licence . non-automatic licensing shall not have a restrictive or trade-disrupting effect on goods . a fee, the amount of which shall be established by the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine, shall be charged for issuing a licence. goods, the export (import) of which is subject to licensing, shall be released into the relevant customs regime by the customs authorities . customs clearance of goods that are licensed and loaded in bulk shall not be denied if the value, quantity or weight of such goods differ slightly from those specified in the licence . the list of goods subject to licensing procedures shall include information on the right to receive a licence . information on quota allocation shall be subject to publication with notification of other states interested in supplying certain goods to Ukraine . conducting foreign economic operations by foreign economic activity entities without the relevant licences shall entail the imposition of a fine . import of goods known in advance to be harmful to public morals, health or to threaten human life, fauna and flora, or to cause damage to the environment . list of goods whose export (import) through the territory of Ukraine is prohibited shall be determined exclusively by the laws of Ukraine . special import procedures applied in Ukraine shall include: – regime of previous import deposits made in the banks . previous import deposit shall be opened not later than three working days after the agreement (contract) enters into legal force . foreign economic activity entities only authorised by Ukraine as a state may carry out export and import of weapons, ammunition, military equipment . establishment of any form of a state monopoly on export and import of other types of goods not specified in this Article shall not be allowed . foreign economic activity entities shall accept state orders only voluntarily on the terms and to the extent determined by civil law agreements (contracts) concluded between these entities and the state customer . for accounting for foreign economic operations, foreign economic entity entities shall use the chart of accounts and instruction on its use applicable in the territory of Ukraine . foreign economic activity entities shall be entitled to obtain any information necessary for the conduction of this activity that is not a state or commercial secret . the scope of information that is state secret shall be defined under the laws of Ukraine . information on mandatory distribution of part of the proceeds in foreign currency shall be provided to the national bank of Ukraine four times a year . central executive authority in charge of shaping state policy in the field of statistics shall quarterly compile and publish statistical information on the state and structure of foreign trade balance of Ukraine . special economic zones of different types may be introduced in the territory of Ukraine by adopting an individual law of Ukraine for each of these zones . the legal status of business entities of other states in the territory of Ukraine shall be determined by the current laws of Ukraine and the above-mentioned agreements . Ukraine shall independently get membership in international intergovernmental economic organisations whose constituent acts do not contradict the purposes and principles of the Constitution of Ukraine . if Ukraine and the state that has applied actions with discriminatory and/or unfriendly features against Ukraine are members of the same international intergovernmental organisation, the consideration and settlement of the dispute shall be carried out under the rules and procedures of such organisation . the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of economic development shall conduct a relevant investigation . measures in response to discriminatory and/or unfriendly actions of other states, customs unions or economic groups shall not be applied or terminated . additional measures that may be applied in response shall include: cancellation of tariff privileges (tariff preferences) for the rates of the Customs Tariff of Ukraine . it is prohibited to re-export goods imported at the expense of the State Monetary Fund of Ukraine and the monetary fund of local councils of councillors . a decision on application of anti-dumping, anti-subsidised or special measures shall be made . free trade regimes, preferences, special preferential regimes (border (coastal) trade, special (free) economic zones and, etc. provided for by the laws of Ukraine, shall be suspended for a period until the application of the specified measures ends . property liability shall be applied in the form of material compensation for direct, consequential losses, loss of profit, as well as property sanctions . criminal liability in the foreign economic activity shall be imposed only in cases provided for by the criminal legislation of Ukraine . as a state, Ukraine shall be financially liable for the actions specified in this Article with all of its property . foreign economic activity entities shall bear responsibility in the types and forms provided for by Article 33 of this Law, other laws of Ukraine and/or foreign economic agreements (contracts) procedure for bringing to liability, implementation of liability and release from liability shall be determined by procedural laws of Ukrainian . Disputes arising during foreign economic activities shall be considered by courts of Ukraine, as well as with the consent of the parties .