this Law shall define the legal and organisational principles of exercising the right to freedom of association guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine and international treaties of Ukraine . it shall not be applied to public relations in the field of establishing, registration, operation and termination of certain types of public associations . foreign non-governmental organisations shall operate in the territory of Ukraine . public associations shall be established and operated on the following principles . no property interest of their members (participants); transparency, openness and publicity . no property interest of their members provides for the payments in favour of members (copyright holders) after the distribution of rights income by the collective management organisation . transparency means that public associations inform the public about their purpose (aims) and operations . public associations cannot include paramilitary units . public associations have the right to implement their purpose (aims) by entering into cooperation agreements and/or mutual assistance among themselves on a voluntary basis . public associations can cooperate with foreign non-governmental organisations and international governmental organisations in compliance with the Laws of Ukraine and international treaties of Ukraine . Founders of a public union can not be political parties, as well as legal entities in respect of which a decision has been made to terminate them or which are in the process of termination . public unions are formed at the founding meeting of its founders and are drawn up in minutes . members (participants) can be individuals who have reached the age of 14 . a private legal entity participates in the establishment of a public union through its Head or other authorised representative . the minutes of the founding meeting shall be signed by the Meeting Chairman and Secretary . a person can be elected as a Head, elected to the managing body or determined by the person authorised to represent the public association . a public association that intends to run operations with or without the legal entity status is subject to state registration . in case of failure to submit (failure to send) documents for registration within 60 days from the date of the founding meeting, such an association is not considered established . names of public associations shall be determined by a decision of the establishing meeting . public association name should consist of two parts – general and proper names . proper name of a public association shall not be identical to other registered public associations . it is prohibited to use historical state names, the list of which is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . a public association can also have an abbreviated name, which is determined by the decision of its founding meeting or the supreme management body . the public association charter shall contain information on: 1) public association name; 2) purpose (aims) and directions of its operation; 3) powers of the Head, supreme managing body, other managing bodies . a public association with the legal entity status can have separate subdivisions . public association symbols should not reproduce state symbols of Ukraine . symbols should be different from the representation of the already registered symbols of another public association . public association symbols shall be approved by the authorised statutory body of a public association in accordance with the procedure established by its charter . the use of the registered symbols by individuals and legal entities without the consent of such association is prohibited . an all-Ukrainian public association has the right to use its own symbols from the date of its registration. a separate subdivision of a foreign non-governmental organisation can be banned by court . a public association has the right to freely disseminate information about its operations . it can also apply to government authorities, local self-government authorities, their officials . a public association with the legal entity status, a legal entity created by it can be an executor of a state order in accordance with the law . interference of government authorities, authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self-government authorities is not allowed . the state ensures the observance of the rights of public associations . public associations with the legal entity status have the right to financial support . they are obliged to submit and publish reports on the intended use of these funds . public associations and legal entities created by them are granted benefits, including tax benefits . a public association with the legal entity status has the right to own, use and dispose of funds and other property . property acquired at one's own expense, temporarily provided for use (except for orders) or on other grounds not prohibited by law . in the event of dissolution, its property and funds are transferred to another public association . liquidator (liquidation commission) is obliged to apply to the economic court with an application to initiate a bankruptcy case of such public association . Article 26. Voluntary termination of a public association 1. A public association has the right to make a decision on termination of its operation (self-dissolution) public associations, separate subdivisions of foreign non-governmental organisations shall bear responsibility for violation of the law provided for by this and other laws of Ukraine . the present Law shall enter into force as of the day following the day of its publication and shall be effective as of 1 January 2013 . amendments to the charter (regulation) related to the entry into force of this law are registered without charging a fee for registration actions within five years . all-Ukrainian and international public organisations registered on the day this law enters into force shall be considered public organisations that have confirmed their all-ukranian status . the relevant body that keeps the registration file of the local branch is the authorised body for the registration of local branches of all-ukrainian (international) public organisations . public organisations, their unions have the right, within two years from the date of entry into force of this Law, to apply to the body that registered public organisations and unions before the day this law came into force . public organisations, their unions (unions, associations, other associations of public organisations) legalised on the day of entry into force of this Law shall submit (send by mail) documents for registration actions to the authorised body for registration at their location . the term for consideration of a notice of changes to the charter, a change in the composition of managing bodies is extended by the time the registration files are sent . measures to bring by-laws into compliance with this Law, ensuring that they come into force simultaneously with the entry into force of the Law . harmonisation of regulatory acts of ministries and other central executive bodies . determination of the procedure for maintaining the Register of public associations .