customs legislation of Ukraine shall consist of the Constitution of Ukraine, this Code . international treaties of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine apply . customs laws of Ukraine and customs-related regulatory acts enter into force in 45 days upon their official publication . customs control and customs clearance of goods shall be exclusively governed by the provisions of the customs laws of Ukraine and other customs-related regulatory acts . customs formalities without lodging a customs declaration is provided for in the legislation of Ukraine . the provisions that mitigate or cancel a person’s liability for the violation of the laws laid down in this Code shall have a retroactive effect in time . the official exchange rate of the Ukrainian currency to the foreign currency established by the National Bank of Ukraine shall apply . currency valuables shall mean currency of Ukraine including monetary units in the form of banknotes, treasury notes, coins and other forms that are in circulation . payment instruments and securities (shares, bonds, their coupons, promissory notes (drafts), debentures, letters of credit, checks, bank orders, deposit certificates and other financial and banking documents) denominated in the currency “freight shipment” shall mean goods brought into Ukraine addressed to the persons, or sent by them from Ukraine, or transited through the customs territory of Ukraine . “declaration of customs value” shall be a document in the prescribed form that is lodged by the declarant . if the declaration is not lodged within the prescribed time period, the goods will be deemed to have crossed the border of Ukraine or placed under another customs regime . customs authorities grant the right to the person to take certain actions, orally or in writing (in hard or soft copy) or by attaching a personal numbered seal to the accompanying documents (declarations, particulars) "express carrier" shall mean a carrier that conducts express transportation of international express goods under cover of a single transport document . "non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity” shall mean any prohibitions and/or restrictions that are not associated with imposing duties . “сontainer” shall mean an article of transport equipment (cage, movable tank or other similar structure) a container shall include the accessories and equipment of the container, appropriate for the type concerned . “counterfeit goods” means goods that are the subjects of infringement of intellectual property rights to a trademark in Ukraine . “cultural valuables” shall mean the items of material and spiritual culture that have an artistic, historical, ethnographic and scientific value . “customs procedure” means a set of customs formalities and the procedure for their implementation determined by the purpose of moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine . customs instrumentality means single-use numbered locking and sealing devices, seals, stamps, holographic marks, electronic signatures and other identification means used by the customs authorities . “customs control” shall mean actions taken with a view to ensuring that the provisions of this Code, customs laws and other customs-related regulations, are observed . “international mail” means letters, postcards, parcels, special sacks bearing the “M” mark, small packages, insured mail items, packages, consolidated postal matters bearing the "Consignment" mark . “international express shipments” shall mean duly packed international shipments with enclosed documents or goods for the purpose of expedited delivery to an addressee within the established time limit . "entity” shall mean any legal entity as well as any citizen-entrepreneur . "taxpayer" shall mean a person that has to pay customs charges under the Code, the Tax Code of Ukraine and other laws of Ukraine . “officials of delegations of foreign countries and international organisations” means heads of diplomatic missions and members of diplomatic staff . “permanent place of residence” means a place in the territory of any country where a citizen has resided for at least one year . “stores” shall mean the goods intended to be consumed by passengers and crew (team) members onboard means of transport . a “rightholder” is a person who, in accordance with the law, owns property rights to the object of intellectual property rights . “hand luggage” shall mean the goods that belong to citizens and are moved across the customs border of Ukraine accompanying those citizens or their authorised persons without drawing up any baggage or other transport documents . “foreign going vessel” means a Ukrainian or foreign vessel that conducts the international carriage of goods and/or passengers and enters or leaves customs territory of Ukraine . 57-1) “goods suspected of infringement of intellectual property rights” means: а) the goods with the features of infringement of copy devices, products or components designed, produced or adapted mainly for insuring or simplifying circumvention of the technology, device or component . “commercial means of transport” shall mean any vessel, hovercrafts, aircrafts, motor road vehicles (motive-powered vehicles, trailers, semi-trailers), water and aircrafts registered in the territory of the respective country . goods wholly obtained (produced) in the customs territory of Ukraine and not incorporating goods imported from countries or territories not forming part of the custom “unified customs receipt” means a document in the prescribed form . “qualifying shareholding” and “final beneficial owners (controllers)” in this Code shall have the meanings given in the law of Ukraine “on preventing and counteracting the legalisation (laundering) of Illicitly Obtained Income, Financing of Terrorism” state customs affairs shall comprise the established procedure and conditions of the movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine . state control over non-food imports into customs territory of Ukraine as provided by the law, anti-smuggling, prevention of customs violations . customs territory of Ukraine shall comprise land territory, inland maritime waters, territorial waters and airspace . customs border of Ukraine will coincide with the state border, save for man-made islands, installations and structures . information relating to state customs affairs obtained by customs authorities may be used by latter solely for customs purposes . a resident entity that performs any role in the international supply chain shall acquire the status of Authorised economic operator (AEO) for the purpose of defining an entity's role, the terms are used in the following meaning: 1) “manufacturer” shall mean an entity that directly manufactures goods intended for export; 2) “importer” means a company that directly imports goods into the country; 3) “customs representative” is a representative of a carrier, freight forwarder, holder of warehouse  exporter (importer) means entity that exports (imports) goods across the customs border of Ukraine . an entity may choose the type of authorisation provided for in this part . - authorisation shall be granted subject to confirmation that the entity complies with the criteria defined in clauses 1–4 of this part. AEO authorisation shall be granted free of charge and shall be valid indefinitely . customs authorities shall monitor the compliance of the entity with the AEO criteria . the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall approve the form of entity's application . an -S authorised entity shall enjoy the following benefits: 1) completion of customs formalities for goods, commercial means of transport as a matter of priority . a non-aeo entity shall not be entitled to use the national AEO logo . non-resident entities shall be entitled to use the benefits defined in this Article in accordance with the international treaties of Ukraine that provide for mutual recognition of AEO authorised entities . permits for applying special simplifications defined in clauses 1 and 2, part 1, Article 13 of this Code shall be granted free of charge within 15 working days from the date of registration of the relevant application . separate permits shall be granted for each separate special simplification defined in clauses 1 and 2, part 1, Article 13 of this Code . separate permits for each AEO facility (buildings, structures, open or enclosed sites, etc.) shall be indicated in the permit . permits may be suspended or revoked by customs office if conditions specified in permit are not met . an entity shall meet the criteria defined in clause 1, part 3, Article 12 of this Code . for the purposes of assessing the entity's compliance with this criterion: a) no administrative penalties for systematic or serious violations of customs regulations have been imposed on the persons from the entity specified in clause 1 of this part . three or more violations of customs rules committed during a calendar year by one or more persons specified in clause 1 of this part shall be considered systematic violations . serious violations shall be customs violations, for which an administrative penalty is imposed in the form of a fine or confiscation of goods, commercial means of transport . an entity shall meet the criteria defined in clause 2, part 3, Article 12 of this Code in the case of observance of the following terms . an entity shall meet the criteria defined in clause 3, part 3, Article 12 of this Code . it must have experience in carrying out activities within the international delivery chain . the entity must also have an employee responsible for customs formalities . an entity shall meet the criteria defined in clause 5, part 3, Article 12 of this Code in the case of observance of the following terms . the structure and arrangement of facilities (buildings, structures, open or closed sites, etc.) used by the entity and relevant for compliance assessment ensure protection against unlawful entry into such facilities . an entity shall comply with the criterion specified in clause 5, part 3, Article 12 of this Code if it holds a certificate of compliance with safety and reliability standards . the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall assess the compliance of the entity with the AEO criteria . the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall refuse the entity to conduct the compliance assessment . the decision includes the grounds for such refusal with reference to the legal provisions, as well as the term and procedure for appealing such a decision . compliance assessment shall be conducted within 120 days from the date of decision to conduct it . a mandatory on-site visit to the relevant facilities of the entity shall be conducted . customs officials shall have the right to check information indicated by an entity in the self-assessment questionnaire . they are obliged to use information obtained during the assessment only for the purpose and to the extent required for conducting the compliance assessment . officials of the entity shall be obliged to: 1) not to interfere with the lawful activities of customs officials conducting the compliance assessment . if the entity is found to be in non-compliance with the AEO criteria, it shall immediately notify the customs authorities . the officials shall have the right to extend the deadlines for the submission of documents by the entity and the term of conduct of compliance assessment in the cases provided for in part 5 of this Article . customs officials conducting the compliance assessment shall have unhindered access to the entity's facilities and provide conditions for their responsibilities . the entity shall be obliged to provide all information and documents required for compliance assessment, on their requests, within 10 working days from the date of receipt of such request . in case of non-provision by an entity, to the request of a customs official conducting compliance assessment , a decision on refusal to grant AEO authorisation shall be made . customs officials shall be obliged to ensure that the entity eliminated the detected non-compliance within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of receipt of notification from the entity . each customs official conducting the compliance assessment shall prepare a draft report on the results of the assessment of compliance of the entity with the AEO criterion . if the entity within the period stipulated by paragraph 4 of this part has not submitted written objections or if their consideration has revealed that such objections are unjustified, the customs official conducting the compliance assessment shall submit the signed report . the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall make a decision on granting AEO authorisation . if according to the conclusion on the compliance (non-compliance) of an entity with the AEO criteria, the entity complies with the the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall issue an AEO certificate . customs authorities shall take a set of measure ensuring systematic control over the compliance of the entity with the AEO criteria . compliance monitoring measures shall be carried out on the basis of results of the application of the risk management system . if the entity is registered for less than three years, a higher risk level shall be applied when carrying out measures on compliance monitoring . the customs office at the location of the AEO shall immediately send a request to the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy . the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall make a decision on conducting a compliance re-assessment with the indication of its grounds . in the cases provided for in clauses 1 and 2, part 7 of this Article, exclusively the conditions of compliance with the AEO criteria, possibly revealed by an entity or customs authority . the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall make a decision on suspending the AEO authorisation under Article 17 of this Code . if according to the conclusion on the compliance (non-compliance) of an entity with the . AEO criteria, the entity does not comply with at least one of the aeo criteria . the decision on suspension of the authorisation shall be sent to the entity without delay . the period of suspension of AEO authorisation shall correspond to the period specified by the entity in the application . an entity shall have the right to take measures to ensure compliance with the AEO criteria . the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall make a decision on conducting the assessment of measures taken . a copy of the decision on conducting the assessment of measures taken shall be sent to the entity without delay, but no later than the next working day after the day it was made . if prior to the expiry of the period of suspension of AEO authorisation, the entity has not notified about the measures taken . the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall make a decision on revocation of authorisation . customs officials shall be obliged to consider the objections submitted by the entity within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of their receipt . if the entity has not submitted written objections or if their consideration has revealed that such objections are unjustified, the customs official conducting the assessment of measures taken shall submit the signed report to the official of the central executive authority in charge of implementing state customs policy . AEO authorisation shall be revoked by the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy . customs formalities in respect of commercial means of transport and goods transported by them shall be completed under such special simplifications . after the revocation of aeo authorisation, an entity shall not have the right to apply special rules and/or enjoy benefits provided for in Article 13 of this Code . the customs authorities shall inform all the persons concerned on the application of customs rules as prescribed by the law . consultations shall be of an individual nature and may be used solely by the person such consultation was addressed to . customs legislation of Ukraine provides for privileges and benefits granted for the movement of goods across customs border . the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy shall summarise consultation on the application of certain provisions of the customs legislation of Ukraine . no person who acted in line with such consultations shall be held liable . an advance ruling shall be issued before the goods start moving across customs border . an advance ruling in respect of the classification of goods under the UKT ZED or authorisation to place goods under a customs procedure shall be issued within 30 days . it may be extended by the head of the customs authority or the person authorised by him/her for as long as 15 days with an appropriate notice being served to the requesting person . the advance ruling shall be valid within three years from its issue date unless the facts and conditions remain unchanged . if it is needed to make changes in the advance ruling, it must be first revoked and then replaced by a new one . advance rulings other than information that is deemed confidential under the Code shall be publicly available . appeal may be lodged against: 1) decisions, acts or omissions taken by the customs authorities, their officials and other employees . appeals against tax rulings of the customs authorities shall be implemented as set out in the Tax Code of Ukraine . superior public officials in respect of officials and other employees of customs officials shall be the executives of those authorities . an official or an authority considering the appeal shall provide a person, who lodged an appeal with a duly substantiated written reply . appeals and other petitions of citizens shall be considered by customs authorities . an appeal of an entity shall contain all necessary details of that entity . if issues raised in a petition do not fall within its competence, it shall be forwarded . the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall, as part of its oversight role, have the right to annul or alter the unlawful decisions taken by its subordinate customs authorities or their officials . the officials and other employees who took unlawful decisions, unlawful acts or omissions shall be subject to criminal, administrative, disciplinary and other liability in accordance with the law. customs controls may be carried out by using information, telecommunication and information systems . in case of failure, customs formalities carried out in accordance with the procedure specified by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. applications, petitions, requests, appeals, and other documents may be submitted electronically . electronic documents shall be converted into the visual form suitable for human perception . compliance of information systems with national standards shall be confirmed . documents required for customs control and customs clearance of goods and commercial means of transport, shall be submitted by other state authorities . the procedure for using the information resources operated by the customs authorities shall be established by the Code and other legislative acts of Ukraine . the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall be the administrator and holder of the Single State Information Web Portal "Single Window for International Trade" data provided via the Single State Information Web Portal “Single Window for International Trade” shall be harmonised for the purpose of avoiding the need to repeatedly provide the same data to various state authorities, institutions and organisations . a paper copy of the document containing secret information shall be provided to the customs authorities . information provided by the declarants, their representatives, other persons concerned using the Single Window mechanism shall be ensured . data provided via the Single State Information Web Portal “Single Window for International Trade” shall be harmonised in accordance with the recommendations and based on the data model of the World Customs Organisation . the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy shall approve a technical standard document . documents and data concerning the movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine between the persons referred to in part one of this Article . transfer of relevant authorisation documents and/or data on the introduction (exclusion) of goods into (from) the relevant register by state authorities, institutions and organisations authorised to exercise authorisation or control functions . use by customs authorities of information provided by declarants, their representatives and other persons concerned . the Single State Information Web Portal “Single Window for International Trade” shall operate constantly (24 hours a day) except for the time necessary for its maintenance . the portal shall provide information on permit or register, customs regime, declarant, consignor, consignee . in the event of failure of the Single State Information Web Portal “Single Window for International Trade”, the time limits set forth in this Code, which are related to its operation, shall be suspended until its operability is restored . the procedure for interaction between the declarants, their representatives, other persons concerned and the customs authorities shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . customs authorities and entities engaged in foreign trade may exchange information . information provided by the parties in the course of cooperation shall be confidential . country of origin determined to impose taxes on goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine . provisions of this Code shall be applied to determine the origin of goods subject to the most-favoured-nation regime (non-preferential origin) goods of preferential origin shall be determined based on the laws of Ukraine, as well as the international treaties of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. goods completely produced in free customs zones in the territory of Ukraine shall be deemed to be the goods defined in Article 38 of this Code . criterion for sufficient processing of ground (road) vehicles shall be the mandatory performance of the following production and technological operations . a change in the value of the goods as a result of their processing (ad valorem share rule) production or technological operations deemed sufficient to be determined as originating from the country where such operations took place . criterion for sufficient processing shall not be met by operations related to ensuring the safety of goods during storage or transportation . disassembled or unassembled goods delivered in several batches shall be considered as a single commodity . country of origin of packaging in which goods are imported into the customs territory of Ukraine shall be the same as the country in which the packaging is made . a certificate of origin is a document that clearly indicates the country of origin of the goods . a declaration of the regional name of goods is issued by the competent authority under the legislation of the relevant region of the country. documents confirming the country of origin of the goods shall be kept in accordance with the procedure and within the period established by Article 355 of this Code . in cases provided by law, the customs authority shall be entitled to demand and receive the original documents of origin . if goods are imported into Ukraine are subject to quantitative restrictions (quotas) or measures taken by the state regulatory bodies for foreign economic activity . goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine are not subject to written declaration . in case of doubts as to authenticity of documents confirming country of origin, customs authority shall submit a request to examine documents of origin or provide additional information . customs authorities shall issue certificates of origin from Ukraine . in case of export of goods from customs territory of Ukraine the certificate of origin of the goods from Ukraine shall be issued by the authority or organisation authorised under the law . the customs authority shall refuse to release the goods if they originate from the country whose goods are prohibited to move across customs border of Ukraine . the most-favoured-nation regime shall be applied (restored) to the goods . information on the customs value of goods is used for: accruing customs payments, maintaining customs statistics, and calculating tax liability . the value of imported media containing software for data processing equipment shall be taken into account . customs value of goods may be determined before goods cross the customs border of Ukraine . customs declarant or its authorised representative who declares the value shall have the right: 1) to have declared goods released for free circulation; 2) to have customs payments made based on the declared value of the goods . declaration must be made in the manner prescribed by Section VIII of this Code and this Chapter . declaration of customs value of goods moved across customs border of Ukraine . customs authority that performs customs clearance of such goods, shall be provided with customs declaration, in accordance with the established procedure . declaration shall be submitted in case: a) customs payments are made based on the customs price; b) guarantees are extended pursuant to Section X of this Code . in the case: the declarant or its authorised representative does not agree with the decision . customs value declaration shall not be submitted in cases provided for by part 5 of this Article when declaring the batches of goods the custom value of which does not exceed 5 000 Euros . declaration shall contain information on the method of determining the customs price of goods . declarant shall submit to customs authority documents confirming declared customs worth of goods and the chosen method of its determination . if the documents referred to in part 2 of this Article contain discrepancies that affect the customs value accuracy, signs of forgery or do not contain all the information confirming the numerical values . the declarant or its authorised representative must provide within 10 calendar days (if any) the following additional documents: invoices for payments to third parties in favor of the seller . customs authority shall accept customs value declared by declarant or its authorised representative or take a written decision on its adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Article 55 of this Code . declaration must be accompanied by an extract from the accounting and banking documents of the buyer relating to the alienation of the goods being valued . the customs authority may refuse customs clearance of goods at the value declared by the declarant or its authorised representative . in case of incorrectly calculated customs value of goods, customs payments may be made based on the declared value . customs payment guarantees are extended pursuant to part 7, Article 55 of this Code . customs authorities may adjust customs value of goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine . if customs authority finds incomplete and/or inaccurate information about customs valuation of goods, adjustment may be taken . declaration must contain substantiation of the reasons why it cannot be accepted . customs control must be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the relevant national legislation . a declarant or its authorised representative may appeal the decision to adjust the customs value of goods . customs payments must be made based on the declared value and guarantees are extended pursuant to section X of this Code . the declaration must be accompanied by a copy of the declaration and the custom's value adjustment decision . customs authority may release goods into free circulation subject to payment of customs duties . declarant or its authorised representative may provide additional documents to confirm the declared customs value of the goods being declared . if customs authorities do not provide a substantiated refusal, the declaration shall be deemed to have been incorrectly determined . information concerning the customs value of goods moved across customs border of Ukraine may not be disclosed or transmitted to third parties, including other public authorities . publication by customs authority of depersonalised information on specific export and import transactions shall not be deemed to be disclosure of restricted information . customs valuation based on the agreement (contract) price with respect to imported goods . method applies if there are no restrictions on the rights of the buyer (importer) to use the goods being valued . fall-back method applies in accordance with requirements established by Article 64 of this Code . customs valuation based on agreement (contract) price with respect to imported goods shall not be applied if information used by the declarant or its authorised representative is not documented or quantified . price actually paid or payable is total amount of all payments made or payable by the buyer of the goods being valued . cost of boxes (containers) in which the goods are packed, or other packaging . royalties and other licence fees relating to the goods being valued . procedure for including royalty and license fees in the price calculation shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the customs value shall not include any costs other than those provided for in this Article . the fact that the seller and the buyer are related persons cannot in itself be grounds for considering the value of the transaction as unacceptable . customs authority shall provide the declarant or its authorised representative with his written justification that such impact has taken place . persons, one of whom is a sole agent, sole distributor or sole concessionaire of another, whatever it may be called, shall be considered related for the purposes of this Code . the value of the transaction is used as a basis for determining the customs value of goods being valued under the first method . the customs value of goods being valued cannot be determined in accordance with the provisions of Article 58 of this Code . the value of the transaction with identical goods sold for export to Ukraine from the same country shall be taken as a basis . minor external differences may not be grounds for refusing to treat goods as identical if in general, such goods meet the requirements of part 2 of this Article . the customs value of goods being valued cannot be determined in accordance with provisions of Articles 58 and 59 of this Code . similar goods shall mean goods that, although not identical in all respects, have similar characteristics and consist of similar components . if more than one contract value is identified for similar goods, the lowest value shall be used . goods shall not be considered identical or similar if their architecture, research and development work, decoration, design, sketches, drawings, as well as other similar works are performed in Ukraine . customs value shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of this Article on the basis of the subtraction of value . goods of the same class and type shall include goods imported from the same country as the goods being valued . the amount of profit and general expenses, which include direct and indirect costs associated with the sale of these goods, shall be taken as a whole . the classification of goods as "goods of the same class or type" shall be made on a case-by-case basis . customs value of such goods shall be determined on the basis of unit price at which the goods being valued are sold in Ukraine . 63. To determine the customs value of goods on the basis of the addition of value (calculated value), the basis shall be the information provided by the manufacturer of the goods being valued . calculations shall be based on accepted industrial formulas, recipes, construction methods and other industry practices . customs official may not require or compel any non-resident to provide access to any account or other records for the purpose of determining the calculated value . information provided by the manufacturer of goods for the purposes of customs valuation may be verified in the country of manufacture . customs value of imported goods shall not be determined on the basis of: 1) prices of goods of Ukrainian origin on the domestic market of Ukraine . customs valuation of goods imported into customs territory of Ukraine shall be carried out in accordance with Chapter 9 of this Code . customs value determined when the goods were first placed under the customs regime shall be replaced by customs values determined according to the new customs system . the structure of the ten-digit digital code designation of goods in UKT ZED includes group code, product position, product subheading, product category and subcategory . the Ukrainian Classification of Goods of Foreign Economic Activity is maintained by the central executive authority implementing the state customs policy . complicated case of classification of goods shall mean a case when there are contradictions in the interpretation of the provisions UKT ZED . penalties and other sanctions for non-payment of customs duties and for other violations detected in connection with the incorrect classification . Article 70. Selection and change of a customs regime . goods shall be placed under a customs regime by declaring them and completing customs formalities . goods in the customs territory of Ukraine (except for the territories of free customs zones) shall be deemed to have the status of Ukrainian goods, unless the Code states that such goods are not Ukrainian . goods placed under customs regime of import shall acquire the status of Ukrainian goods . re-import of goods from outside the customs territory of Ukraine is not permitted . re-import means goods were exported or registered for export outside the customs territory of Ukraine . goods are released for free circulation with relief from payments of customs duties . customs regime may be applied to goods arriving into Ukraine and to goods stored under customs control . goods previously released for export outside customs territory of Ukraine is placed under the customs regime of re-import . goods must have undergone activities required for their preservation when staying outside the ukraine . customs authority must be able to identify goods declared under such customs regim . goods placed under customs regime of re-import shall retain the status of Ukrainian goods . export duties paid on export of such goods shall be repaid to the persons that paid them or to their legal successors . goods released for free circulation outside the customs territory of Ukraine with no obligations of their reimport . goods placed under customs regime of export lose the status of Ukrainian goods at the time of their actual export outside the customs territory of Ukraine . re-export means exporting goods previously imported into Ukraine with relief from export duties and without their being subject to non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity . goods placed under customs regime of temporary import are exported outside customs territory of Ukraine in the same state as when imported into the customs territorial of Ukraine . goods referred to in part 1 of this Article may also be placed under re-export regime, if: 1) they underwent activities required for their preservation when staying within the ukraine . if the state of such goods changed due to an accident or force majeure event as established by the central executive authority . only a part of goods previously imported into customs territory of Ukraine is placed under the customs regime re-export . goods placed under customs régime of free customs zone or duty-free trade shall also be placed under reexport procedure . identification means provided in part 2 and part 3 of Article 326 of this Code may be applied . re-exported goods may be exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine in one or several consignments . documents that confirm previous import shall be used instead of a customs declaration . goods that are conferred the status of Ukrainian resulting from import lose their status at the time of their actual export . customs transit regime allows movement of goods in external or internal transit, or cabotage . the customs transit regime may be applied both to the goods, commercial means of transport directly imported into customs territory of Ukraine . goods may be placed under customs regime irrespective of their customs status . a person in charge of compliance with the regime requirements shall: 1) present a customs declaration, a shipping document and an invoice (invoice) or another document specifying the value of the goods . identification means provided for in parts 2 and parts 3of Article 326 of this Code may be applied to ensure the identification of goods and commercial means of transport placed under the customs transit regime . goods moved under customs regime of transit shall: 1) be in an unchanged state, except for the natural changes in their qualitative and/or quantitative characteristics . air waybill or bill of lading may be used instead of a customs declaration in the case of transit within one checkpoint or for declaring non-excisable goods, depending on the mode of transport . SMGS consignment note, cim consignments note, or tir carnet shall be used . in cases provided for in international contracts of Ukraine concluded in accordance with the law, the documents . provided for by such agreements to be used to declare goods, commercial means of reloading of goods moved under customs transit regime allowed with permission . grouping of packing units, change of packing, marking, sorting, repair and replacement of damaged packing shall be carried out with permission of customs authority . provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the export of goods placed under the customs regimes of export, re-export, temporary import, and outward processing . cabotage of foreign goods on board a vessel along with Ukrainian goods to be carried out . if reliable identification is not ensured, Ukrainian goods shall be placed on board vessel separately from foreign goods . goods transported in cabotages shall be loaded and unloaded at sea (river) ports at the location of the customs authorities . for the purposes of cabotage transportation of goods a document containing a list of goods intended for such transportation, information on a vessel that will carry out such transportation . the customs transit regime shall be discharged with the export of goods, commercial means of transport placed under that customs regime outside customs territory of Ukraine . the customs transit regime shall also be discharged when goods, commercial means of transport are placed under another customs regime . Ukrainian goods moved under the regime of transit in accordance with the provisions of subclauses "c" and "d" of clause 2, part 2 of Article 91 of this Code shall be released from customs control upon actual delivery of such goods . customs regime of temporary import may be applied to goods arriving into customs territory of Ukraine . customs legislation of Ukraine may set forth documents used for declaring goods, commercial means of transport . identification means provided for in parts 2 and 3 of Article 326 of this Code may apply by customs authorities . in the customs regime of temporary import with conditional total relief from customs duties may be placed only goods, commercial means of transport . air vessels with an empty equipment of more than 10,000 kg, but not more than 30,000 kg and a maximum passenger capacity from 44 to 110 seats may not be placed . in case of violation of the conditions of the regime, a person in charge of compliance with the regime shall pay the amount of tax liability and fine . the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine may set forth a list of goods that cannot be placed under the customs regime of temporary import . commercial means of transport placed under temporary import regime may undergo maintenance and repair . customs authority may establish a temporary import period of up to three years . if goods placed under customs regime of temporary import cannot be exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine as a result of seizure (withdrawal) or in proceeding for violation of customs rules, temporary import is suspended . if commercial vehicles placed under temporary import, can't be exported in a timely manner: due to the circumstances specified in Article 192 of this Code . the financial guarantee shall be returned (released) when the temporary import regime is discharged . foreign goods placed under the customs regime of temporary import shall retain the status of foreign goods . goods temporarily imported into customs territory of Ukraine with conditional partial relief from customs duties . the customs regime of temporary import shall be discharged when goods, commercial means of transport placed under this regime are re-exported . temporary export means goods or commercial means are exported outside customs territory of Ukraine with the conditional total relief from customs duties . a person in charge of compliance with the customs regime of temporary export must present the documents related to goods, commercial means of transport under the temporary regime of export . Article 115. Maintenance and repair of commercial means under temporary export regime may be carried out . a customs authority may grant permission to transfer the right to use temporary export to another person . goods, commercial means of transport placed under customs regime of temporary export shall be subject from conditional total relief from customs duties . customs warehouse is a regime whereby foreign or Ukrainian goods are stored in customs control without being subject to non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity . goods, the period of validity for consumption or use of which has expired; 3) goods arriving to Ukraine as humanitarian supplies; 4) life animals; 5) electric power transmitted via electric power supply lines . goods placed in customs warehouses located on the territories of sea and river ports, airports, railway stations . electronic message shall be sent to the customs authority within four hours from the moment of actual placement of the goods in customs warehouse . customs regime of re-export shall be carried out on the basis of an electronic notice . goods transported as a part of consolidated cargoes shall be placed in warehouses based on electronic notice by the owner . movement of consolidated cargoes imported into the customs territory of Ukraine shall be carried out on the basis of carriage contract . period of storage of goods under customs regime of customs warehouse shall not exceed 1,095 days from the date of placement of these goods in the specified customs régime . if foreign goods during storage were spoiled or damaged as a result of accident or force majeure event, it shall be allowed to declare them for free circulation . the final consignee shall have the right to re-place such period of storage in customs regime of customs warehouse of goods intended for export shall not exceed one year from the date of their placement in this regime . goods shall be exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine prior to the expiration of this period . goods placed under customs regime of customs warehouse may be temporarily exported . export of goods from the customs territory of Ukraine shall be carried out on the basis of new transport documents and customs declaration . customs authority may complete customs regime of warehouse through export of relevant goods or release them for free circulation . if goods are totally lost due to an accident or force majeure event, placement of these goods in another customs regime shall not be required . after storage in the customs warehouse, goods processed outside customs territory of Ukraine shall be exported . a customs authority shall establish the period for export of such goods from the warehouse, but not less than five working days . operations with goods placed under the customs regime of a free customs zone shall be limited to simple warehouse operations . repairs, modernisation, construction of air, sea and river vessels, other water craft, their components shall also be allowed . the guarantees provided for in Section X of this Code shall not be applied for the admission of goods into the territory of a free customs zone . guarantees for the movement of foreign goods between customs authorities or within the operational area of one customs authority shall be applied in accordance with this Code . goods that are not used in production and other economic operations shall be admitted into such territories (released) without changing their customs status and placement in the customs regimes . waste (residues) generated as a result of operations with goods in a free customs zone shall be released with payment of customs duties and interest . waste (residues) generated as a result of operations with foreign goods in a free customs zone shall be placed in this state in the relevant customs regime . waste other than those specified in part one of this Article, shall be disposed of in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine . duty-free trade means goods not intended for free circulation in the customs territory of Ukraine, are placed and are sold for export outside this territory . goods imported from outside customs territory of Ukraine shall be placed under customs regime of duty-free trade . goods brought into Ukraine as humanitarian aid, live animals shall be put under regime . obligations to pay customs duties in moving foreign goods between customs authorities or between different checkpoints . supply of goods by duty-free shops to air, water or railway commercial means of transport operating international flights shall be carried out upon written request of the owner of the duty free shop . goods supplied to air (water or rail) commercial means shall be under the control of customs officials in containers under customs security . unsold goods shall be returned from the vehicle to the duty- free shop that delivered them to the specified vehicle . accounting of goods supplied by duty-free shops to air (water or rail) commercial means of transport which perform international flights shall be kept by the shops owners apart from other goods sold by these stores . supply of goods by duty free shops on board an international flight from a checkpoint across the state border of Ukraine shall be carried out under the control of customs officials . unsold goods shall be returned from the vehicle to the duty-free shop that supplied them to the specified vehicle . an official of the customs authority may check the contents of the container at any stage of delivery of goods to the air commercial means of transport . goods supplied by the duty-free shop on board the air means of transport that is to perform an international flight from a different checkpoint across the state border of Ukraine shall not be required in accordance with Section X of this Code . goods placed under the customs regime of duty free trade shall retain the status of foreign goods . Ukrainian goods not intended for sale in a duty free shop and required for its operation shall be admitted into its premises . customs regime of duty-free trade shall be completed when goods are re-exported . goods placed under the regime shall be destroyed or abolished in case of damage . maximum volumes of goods in respect of which regime of customs free trade may be completed are set by the customs authority . goods shall be placed under customs processing regime on the customs territory with conditional total relief from customs duties . processing of foreign goods shall not allow the use of Ukrainian goods that are subject to export duty in accordance with the law . permission for processing of goods on the customs territory of Ukraine shall be issued free of charge to the enterprise within five working days from the date of registration of the relevant application . foreign trade contracts or substituent documents must contain, in particular, information on the mandatory volume of output of processed products . permission for processing of goods on the customs territory of Ukraine shall include a list of processing operations and the method of their implementation . permission may not be refused in view of the country of origin, country of departure or country of appointment of goods . permission for processing of goods in the customs territory of Ukraine may be modified or revoked . requirements for identification of certain goods imported into customs territorial of Ukraine for processing may be established by central executive authority . some goods processing operations or a full processing cycle may be carried out by other enterprises . period of goods processing in the customs territory of Ukraine shall be established by customs authority . the total processing period may not exceed 365 days, except as provided in parts 2 and 3 . customs authorities shall exercise control over mandatory volume of output of processed products formed as a result of goods processing in the customs territory of Ukraine . re-exporting processed products, shall be declared to customs officials presenting a list of Ukrainian goods consumed during the processing of foreign goods, indicating their quantity and value . the declarant shall be entitled to declare Ukrainian goods in customs regime of export . processed products may be exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine not through customs authority through which goods were imported into this territory for processing . the goods may be admitted to the processing for free circulation in this territory . processing of goods for free circulation in customs territory of Ukraine shall be completed by placing the products of their processing in the customs regime of import . residues or waste derived from processing of foreign goods shall be placed in this state in the relevant customs régime prior to the expiration of the period of goods processing . equivalent goods are Ukrainian and foreign goods that are identical by descriptive, quantitative and technical characteristics to foreign goods which they substitute . Ukrainian goods used in the process of processing foreign goods in the customs territory of Ukraine shall receive the status of foreign goods at the time of exportation of processed products . customs authority may complete customs processing regime in case goods are seized, lost due to accident or force majeure event . processing outside the customs territory means a customs regime whereby Ukrainian goods are subject to non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity . operations specified in part 2 of article 150 of this Code may be carried out during goods processing outside customs territorial of Ukraine . permission to export goods for processing outside customs territory of Ukraine . issued to the enterprise by the customs authority free of charge within five working days . permission issued for amount of goods and the period specified in the foreign trade contract . permission for processing of goods outside the customs territory of Ukraine may not be refused only on the grounds that the processing of these goods will be carried out in a particular country . permission may be modified or revoked if it is issued on the basis of false data, which were essential for decision to issue it . if customs authorities cannot ensure identification of goods exported into customs territory of Ukraine for processing, other methods of identification may be applied . period of goods processing outside customs territories of Ukraine shall be established by customs authority in each case . total processing period may not exceed 365 days, except as provided in parts 2 and 3 . if goods placed under customs processing regime outside the customs territory cannot be re-imported in time due to seizure, accident or force majeure event, the processing period is suspended . customs authorities shall exercise control over mandatory volume of output of processed products . processed products (other than those in part 2 of this Article) shall be subject to partial relief from customs duties . processed products may be imported into the customs territory of Ukraine in one or more consignments . products derived from processing of equivalent goods shall be deemed to be products of Ukrainian goods processing . a customs regime of processing outside the customs territory shall be completed when processed products are imported . abolition or destruction means a regime whereby foreign goods are destroyed under customs control or brought into a condition which excludes their use . in case of non-fulfilment by the enterprise of the requirements of part 1 of this Article, the obligations covered by the guarantee shall be enforceable . the goods may be abolished or destroyed with the written permission of the customs authority . authorisation for placing goods under the abolition or destruction customs regime must be obtained from the owner of the goods or a person authorised by him/her . in case of refusal to issue a permission, customs shall oblige to notify to the requesting person the grounds for refusal . abolition or destruction of goods shall be carried out at the expense of their owner . waste derived from absorption of goods with no economic value shall be treated as foreign goods under customs control . goods placed under the customs regime shall not be subject to customs inspection . goods placed under abolition and destruction customs regime shall be under customs control . customs authority shall have the right to inspect at any time the goods (until their actual destruction) competent officials of the customs authorities and other public authorities have right to be present . article 182. Liability of persons for non-compliance with abd regime . a customs regime where the owner renounces foreign goods in favor of the state . the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine determines a list of goods not to be placed . goods shall be placed under the regime with relief from customs duties and without being subject to non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity . the goods shall be moved across the customs border of Ukraine by air, water, road, rail transport, pipelines and power supply lines, as well as by intermodal transport . customs formalities carried out during customs control and customs clearance of commercial means of transport shall be of uniform nature . employees of water, air, road and rail transport shall assist customs officials . commercial means of transport may temporarily enter customs territory of Ukraine . means may be subject to exportation without undergoing any changes in their design . equipment intended for handling, protection and storage of cargo may be admitted similarly to the vehicle . spare parts and equipment may be imported (exported) under the obligation to re-export (re-import) without charging customs duties . goods brought into the customs territory of Ukraine in error may not be considered a violation of customs rules . carriers shall have the right: 1) not to accept the goods for carriage if customs and/or transport documents are drawn up in violation of the procedure established by the legislation of Ukraine . 2) to replace the motor road vehicle with notification to the customs authority of destination of the reason for such replacement . 3) to unload goods in a warehouse of such authority, if the goods delivered by the carrier that are under customs control are not declared by the responsible person under any customs procedure within three days . if a vehicle fails to arrive at the customs authority of destination due to an accident or force majeure event, the goods may be unloaded elsewhere . for violation of the procedure for goods in transit, the carrier shall bear administrative liability under this Code . provisions of this Article shall not apply to sea, river vessels and aircrafts that do not make any stops at the ports or airports located in the customs territory of Ukraine . entry summary declaration shall be submitted to customs authority, in whose operation area the checkpoint across the state border of Ukraine is located . entry summary declaration shall be submitted to the customs authority by the carrier . a registration number shall be sent to the person who submitted such declaration . the carrier shall be administratively liable under this Code . entry summary declaration shall be submitted in compliance with the following terms for moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine . customs authority shall immediately, but not earlier than upon arrival of goods at the first checkpoint (control point) across the state border of ukraine . if within 200 days from the day of registration, the goods were not imported, the general arrival declaration may be cancelled . article 195. State border checkpoints where goods are moved across the customs border of Ukraine . certain types of goods may be moved across customs frontier of Ukraine at specially designated checkpoint . article 196. Prohibition to move certain goods across the ukraine border . the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall define the codes of goods according to UKT ZED . movement of currency of Ukraine, foreign currency, bank metals across the customs border of Ukraine shall be carried out taking into account the requirements of the Law of Ukraine “On Currency and Currency Transactions” documents containing information about goods shall be presented to customs authority . maximum period of stay of goods, commercial means of transport at checkpoints of state border of Ukraine shall not exceed 30 days in general and five days for road transport . customs clearance of goods in full is carried out not at the customs border checkpoint . the goods and accompanying documents shall be delivered within the period specified in Article 95 of this Code . goods and vehicles carrying them shall be placed in the customs control areas after arrival at the place of delivery . customs authorities shall be obliged to inform the holder of the goods or the person authorised by him/her about the reasons for such refusal . goods of humanitarian aid for temporary storage may be placed in warehouses of beneficiaries . temporary customs control areas shall be formed in temporary storage warehouses . the head of the beneficiary shall ensure accurate accounting of the goods placed in a warehouse . the total period of temporary storage of goods under customs control shall be 90 calendar days . perishable goods or goods with limited storage life may be in temporary storage . the customs authority shall immediately inform the holder of the goods or the person authorised by him/her about the grounds and reasons for such refusal . temporary storage of goods in warehouses located outside checkpoints across the state border of Ukraine at the airports, sea and/or river ports . goods that have become unfit, destroyed or damaged due to an accident or force majeure event during the period of temporary storage under customs control . authorisation for their placement in a temporary storage warehouse shall be the authorisation of the customs authority for unloading of the goods from the vehicle . the goods placed in temporary storage warehouses located outside the checkpoints across the state border of Ukraine at the airports, sea and/or river ports, shall be deemed to be not released to the customs territory of Ukraine until their release from the warehouse . removal of the goods from the storage warehouse shall be carried out based on the decision of customs authority . if customs authorities decide to release goods, the transport documents containing information about such goods, and commercial documents (if any) shall be presented to the said authority  customs authorities shall carry out customs control on sea and river transport . vessels in distress, passenger vessels, cargo-passenger vessels, liners, tankers, other vessels as they arrive . movement of goods placed in temporary storage warehouses outside the checkpoints shall be carried with notification to and under control of the customs authority . goods may be unloaded from and loaded on foreign-going vessels with the authorisation of the customs authority . in case of refusal to grant authorisation, customs authorities shall inform the holder of the goods or the person authorised by him/her . customs clearance of fish products taken by the Ukrainian vessels from the Azov and black sea basin shall be performed without drawing up a customs declaration . goods transported by transit air passengers shall not be subject to customs duties . railway companies shall be liable for loss or improper delivery of goods . customs supervision of goods in international rail traffic shall be carried out in customs control areas . separate cars, locomotives and other rolling stock items may be removed from the train . commercial means of transport employed to move goods across the customs border of Ukraine shall not require a separate declaration . empty commercial means of transport and those carrying passengers across customs border of Ukraine shall be declared . stores imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by sea, river and air transport shall be relieved from customs duties . customs authorities shall grant authorisation for the release of stores or another handling of stores under this Chapter . stores required for operation and maintenance of means of transport shall be relieved from customs duties . records on the movement of goods in the dining cars, cafe-bars, etc. may be used instead of customs declarations for stores . customs authorities authorise the release of stores imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by sea (river) vessel . stores imported into the customs territory of Ukraine may be released for free circulation . customs authorities may attach customs instrumentality to stores to ensure their safety . stores export shall be declared under cover of accompanying documents . restrictions on the admission of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products . alcoholic beverages and tobacco products on board means of transport engaged in international traffic may be imported and exported . customs control of goods transported across the customs border of Ukraine by pipelines and power supply lines . natural gas volumes under backhaul operations shall be carried out in accordance with the declared customs regime . natural gas contained in the gas transmission system and/or in gas storage facilities of Ukraine under customs control, – by carrier – operator of gas transmission systems of Ukraine and gas storage operator . customs authorities shall not reimburse any property claims of persons having authority regarding the respective natural gas volumes . volumes of balancing of natural gas transported by pipeline transport across the customs border of Ukraine are subject to customs clearance in the relevant customs regime . natural gas volume in the reporting period shall be understood as a positive or negative value . customs duties provided for in Section X of this Code shall not apply . international mail and express mail shall be released across the customs border of Ukraine . the procedure for designating and equipping the international postal exchange points shall be established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy . the period for storage of international express mail under customs control may not exceed 30 days . customs authorities shall not require the presentation of letters, postcards and secogrammes to customs examination . express mail shall, with the authorisation of the customs authority and under its control, be stored by the express carrier or its representative . customs control and customs clearance of goods moved (sent) across customs border of Ukraine by international mail shall be carried out at the places of international mail exchanges . goods (excluding excisable ones) sent to the address of one recipient (legal entity or individual) in one dispatch from one sender in the international express mail are not subject to customs duties . excisable goods, moving (sending) of which across the customs border of Ukraine is not prohibited by law, regardless of the value shall be subject to customs duties . the following may not be moved (sent) by international mail and express mail: . goods prohibited to be imported into or exported from customs territory of Ukraine by this Code and other legislative acts of Ukraine . goods moved (sent) across the customs border of Ukraine by international mail and express mail shall be declared by the postal operator, express carrier or declarant . goods, which are not subject to customs duties, as well as correspondence, letters and postcards, literature for the blind, printed materials, international express mail, shall be subject to a written declaration . goods that have not been declared by the holder or the person authorised by him/her under the appropriate customs procedure . goods whose period of stay under customs control in the control area expired . currency valuables transferred to the customs authority for storage shall be deposited with the authorised banks of Ukraine . goods in temporary storage under customs control in accordance with Chapter 29 of this Code . warehouses of the customs authorities shall mean warehouses, reservoirs, open and closed spaces, cooling chambers or freezers . goods that due to their properties cannot be stored in the warehouse of a customs authority may be transferred for storage . customs authorities shall be legally liable for any loss or damage to goods, commercial means of transport stored by them . costs incurred by the authorities for storage of goods whose customs clearance is suspended shall be reimbursed by the holder . cash for reimbursement of expenses may be accepted by authorities with filling in a unified customs receipt issued to the holders . goods referred to in clause 6, part 5, Article 238 of this Code may be stored in the warehouses of the customs authorities within 90 days . currency of Ukraine and foreign currency deposited with authorised banks can be stored there for 1,095 days. goods stored in the warehouses of the customs authorities under customs control may be released to their holder or the person authorised by him/her . if under the court decision a person who violated customs rules is not subject to enforcement in the form of seizure of goods, vehicles . goods, commercial means of transport seized by the court shall be sold . goods detected (found) in the course of customs control shall be sold . information on detected goods shall be placed for public review within three days . perishable goods or goods with a limited storage period seized under this Code . goods seized by a court shall be destroyed in the manner prescribed by the law . proceeds from sale of goods referred to in clauses 2–5 of part 1, clauses 1–5, 7, part 5 of Article 238 and part 4, Article 240 of this Code, shall be stored in the account of the customs authority . if goods constitute objects of violation of customs rules are perishable or have limited shelf life, proceeds from the sale shall be withdrawn . proceeds from the sale of goods and means of transport seized by the court, as well as goods detected (found) in the course of customs control, shall be transferred to the state budget . currency valuables, precious metals and precious stones must be disposed of in accordance with the procedure established by the legislation . customs clearance procedures are identified by the central executive authority responsible for shaping and implementing state fiscal policy . customs clearance is carried out in respective customs unit locations during working hours set for these units . in cases identified by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy, the Automatic Customs Clearance System automatically performs customs procedures on a 24-hour basis . customs procedures performed by local customs authorities after set hours are payable by the party concerned . customs clearance of excisable goods, natural gas, goods subject to state hallmarking under existing law, and medications can be performed at designated locations . customs procedures shall be automatically completed by the Automatic Customs Clearance System . declarants or authorised persons can be present during customs clearance of goods . AEO-C certified organisations are entitled to the special simplified “released at location procedure” to use the released at location procedure, each facility of aeo-c certified organisation must obtain individual clearance . address and geographical location of the facility to be used for declaring and release of goods . list of goods covered by permit specifying product subcategory codes (10 digits) as per UKT ZED, names and typical commercial description . the facility of the AEO-C certified organisation specified in the special simplified “released at location procedure” is the place of delivery . the delivery is deemed completed if: 1) commercial vehicle and its consignment, shipping and support documents delivered to and stored at the respective facility within specified term . customs procedures of the special simplified “released at location procedure” use the Automatic Customs Clearance System . goods entering Ukraine as a part of assistance consignments have the priority . goods entering Ukraine as a part of assistance consignments are not chargeable for customs clearance services provided outside the customs office or after set working hours . Article 251. Customs clearance of goods imported to Ukraine as an investment of a foreign investor has the priority . documents required for customs clearance of goods entering Ukraine in export-import operations shall be submitted in Ukrainian, the official language of Customs Unions Ukraine is the part of or another internationally spoken language . customs authority shall only require Ukrainian translation of documents made in other than official language if customs declaration data require verification or confirmation . customs clearance is deemed completed upon completion of all customs procedures under this Code . customs authority releases goods before the violation is considered . denial of customs is a written reasoned decision on the unavailability of custom . clearance of goods, commercial vehicles due to declarant or authorised person's non-compliance with conditions of this code . this Code identifies declaration conditions and procedure, customs clearance data . customs declaration data are only limited by data required to pay customs duties, form customs statistics and ensure compliance with this Code and other existing laws . declaration data include encoded data about declarant, authorised person, consignor, consignee, carrier and parties of import-export agreement . customs declaration shall include information about special simplified clearance defined in part 1 of Article 13 of this Code used for submission of this simplified declaration . customs authorities and officials have the right where established by this Code to receive free qualified digital signature service provided by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy . customs clearance and release of goods, commercial vehicles for export customs regime can be made without making them available to the customs authority . decision taken by customs authorities based on risk assessment within no more than 4 working hours of receiving of typical customs declaration . customs authority accepts preliminary customs declaration if it includes required product information and is completed with required documents or copies . receiving customs official registers the receipt of declaration by applying respective personal identification and other identifications, including the use of informational technologies . preliminary customs declaration only provides information sufficient for importing goods, commercial vehicles to Ukraine and their delivery to the customs authority at the destination . declarant or authorised person shall submit an additional declaration . provisional customs declares goods for declared customs regime based on currency exchange rates defined under Article 3-1 of this Code . the same person can submit periodical customs declaration for regular movement of goods across the border of Ukraine on the same conditions and under the same provisions for no more than 180 days . if goods, commercial vehicles are imported to Ukraine including transit, a periodical declaration shall be used instead of preliminary declaration . customs authority cannot deny acceptance if it meets all conditions under this Code . permit to use the special "simplified declaring procedure" in cases specified in clauses 1 and 2 of this Article is granted to AEO-C certified facilities . only an invoice or any other document that determines the value of goods shall be submitted along with a simplified customs declaration . the additional customs declaration shall be submitted within 15 days if the simplified declaring procedure is used under one year . the additional declaration shall include exact information about goods declared in preliminary, provisional, simplified, or periodical declaration . additional declaration can be submitted to pay customs duties for the goods imported to Ukraine and released for respective customs regime exempt/conditionally exempt and used in the production of other goods . declarations can be added to multiple preliminary, provisional, simplified or periodical customs declarations completed by one customs authority under an import-export agreement . customs declaration shall be submitted to customs authority responsible for customs clearance of goods, commercial vehicles within 10 days of the date of delivery . in case of customs denial, a new declaration must be submitted within at least 10 days . time specified in parts 1 and 2 of this Article shall be extended at declarant's request . customs authority registers and accepts customs declaration following the procedure established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy . declarant or authorised person must specify the information required by Part 3 of Article 335 of this Code provided in declaring procedure . customs declaration is accepted for customs clearance when submitted in conformity with the established form, signed by submitting person and verification confirms that it includes all required information and documents identified in this Code . customs authority denies acceptance if all requirements established by this Code are met . the declarant or authorised person is held responsible for the reliability of information provided in this declaration . a denial card shall be made following the form established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy . the declarant shall keep the documents specified in customs declaration for at least 1095 days except paper documents submitted to the customs authority for customs clearance . goods owned by individuals can be declared by their owners on basis of notary certificate . Article 266. Rights and responsibilities of the declarant and authorised person 1. customs officials let declarants or authorised persons correct customs declaration mistakes . customs authority applies sanctions against individual provided by this Code and other laws of Ukraine . declaration revisions that affect tariff and/or non-tariff regulation of import-export activity are subject to compliance with these regulations . customs officials cannot complete customs declaration, change provided information . rules of charging duties on goods moving across the customs border of Ukraine shall be determined by this Code and international treaties ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . duty shall mean a national tax set by the Tax Code of Ukraine and this Code . export duty shall be imposed by law on Ukrainian goods exported from the customs territory of Ukraine . special duty may be impose on certain goods for a period at least 60 and no more than 120 consecutive calendar days from the date of imposition of a seasonal duty . anti-dumping duty may also be levied on goods being subject to dumping causing or threatening to cause damage to national producers . countervailing duty shall be imposed under the Law of Ukraine “On Protection of the National Producer against Subsidised Imports” in case of importation into customs territory of Ukraine of goods causing or threatening to cause damage to national producers . Article 276. Payers of duty: a person importing goods into the customs territories of Ukraine or exporting goods from these territories . article 278. Objects of taxation with duty: 1) goods the value of which exceeds the equivalent of EUR 150 goods imported (sent) into the customs territory of Ukraine in volumes subject to taxation with customs payments under Section XII of this Code, as well as Sections V and VI of the Tax Code of Ukraine . the tax point of duty payment in case of import of goods into the ukraine is the date of submission of customs declaration for customs clearance . import duties shall be differentiated in respect of goods originating from countries which, along with Ukraine, are members of the customs unions or form free trade zones with Ukraine . preferential import duty rates set by the Customs Tariff of Ukraine shall apply . duties on goods customs clearance of which is carried out in accordance with the procedure determined for citizens shall be calculated under Section XII . article 282: goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine or exported outside it are exempt from customs duty . if goods are subject to anti-dumping, countervailing or special measures, tariff privileges (tariff preferences) shall not be set or suspended or terminated . goods originating from the customs territory of Ukraine for which the duty was paid during the initial export outside such territory were temporarily imported into such territory and re-exported outside its territory . list of such goods with the indication of codes under the UKT ZED shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . goods specified in this clause shall be exempt from taxation provided that they are used by a taxpayer for own production and if identical goods with similar quality indicators are not manufactured in Ukraine . from 1 January 2013, goods and/or items paid for by grants (subgrants) provided under the programmes of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria in Ukraine, which are implemented under the law . goods specified in clauses 6, 10 and 19, part 1 of Article 282, parts 1 and 4, Article 287 of this Code shall be exempt from taxation with specific types of duties . it shall be prohibited to exempt certain legal entities and individuals from duty and defer its payment for them . goods placed under customs regimes of transit, temporary import, customs warehousing, free customs zone, free trade, inward processing, abolition or destruction . conditional partial relief from import duty applies to goods listed in Article 106 of this Code . conditional total relief from import duty shall apply to goods placed under the customs transit regime, unless otherwise provided for by the law . in case of release of goods under customs temporary import regime for free circulation within customs territory of Ukraine or transfer of such goods for use by other person, import duty will be paid . conditional total relief from import duty shall apply to goods placed under the customs abolition or destruction regime . humanitarian aid provided by Ukraine with its export from customs territory of Ukraine shall be exempt from export duty . machinery, equipment and accessories imported into customs territory of Ukraine by technological parks, their participants and joint ventures shall be subject to import duty on the general grounds . released funds shall be applied by relevant entities for: arrangement of industrial parks, including using cutting edge, energy saving technologies . exempted amounts of import duty shall not be transferred to the budget, but credited to special accounts . a violation of the requirements and conditions set out in parts 1—4, 6 and 8 of this Article shall give rise to the obligation to pay import duty and late payment fees . goods imported under the customs import regime for use in the manufacture of defence products determined under the law, shall be exempt from import duty . if the customer of such products is a state customer determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . goods specified in this part shall not be exempt from import duty if they originate in a country recognised as the occupying state under the law . the procedure for import and designated use of goods shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . specific aspects of charging import duty on goods imported (sent) into customs territory of Ukraine by citizens shall be determined by Section XII of this Code . obligation to pay customs payments shall emerge upon import of goods . in case of illegal movement of goods on the territory of a free customs zone or customs warehouse . goods released for free circulation on the customs territory of Ukraine or exported from its territory without charging customs payments shall also be terminated in cases provided for by this Code, the Tax Code of Ukraine and other laws of Ukraine . articles 291, 292, 293, 294, 295, 296, 298, 299), 2910, 2911, 2912, 2913, 2914, 2915, 2916, 2917, 2918, 2919, 2920, 2921, 2922, 2923, 2924, 2925, the declarant shall be a person obliged to pay customs payments . a relevant taxpayer shall be the person liable to pay additional customs payment . in case of illegal import of goods into the customs territory of Ukraine, illegal export of goods . persons involved in such illegal import (export) of goods, who acquired ownership or possession of such goods, shall be relevant taxpayers . customs payments shall be assessed in the national currency of Ukraine . rates effective on the date of filing a customs declaration for the goods . customs payment rates for illegal movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine and use of goods in violation of set restrictions . customs payments shall be assessed at the rates set on the date of movement of the goods across the customs border of Ukraine . in case of loss, non-delivery or release of goods without the authorisation of customs authorities under customs control and moved in transit or in temporary storage . the taxation base shall be customs value of such goods, their quantity and other indicators determined by the law . customs payments must be paid on or before the date of filing a customs declaration . in case of export of goods from the customs territory of Ukraine, export duty should be paid . customs payment due date shall be the first date when a person violates the restrictions on use and/or disposal of goods . the due date for payment of customs payments shall be the date when the relevant customs regime becomes effective . due dates for paying customs when goods are moved (sent) across the customs border of Ukraine by citizens . customs payment amounts shall be payable directly to a single treasury account . customs payments may be paid by advance payments (prepayment) advance payments shall mean cash deposited by taxpayers at their own discretion . advance payments in the amount of such an order shall not be used for any other purposes . the conditions for granting a relief (conditional relief) from customs payments shall be determined by this Code, the Tax Code of Ukraine, other laws of Ukraine and international treaties ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . the customs authority shall, within one month after the date when it is detected, notify the taxpayer of the overpaid amount of customs payment . customs payments shall be refunded in the same procedure as recovery of mistakenly paid and/or overpaid amounts . late payment fees shall be charged on the tax debt in the amount and according to the procedure determined by the Tax Code of Ukraine . late payment fees shall be payable regardless of the application of other enforcement actions . customs payments shall be collected from persons responsible for their payment . a tax assessment notice shall not be served to a taxpayer if the unpaid amount is less than UAH 20 . security of customs payments may be provided by either a financial guarantee or a guarantee under the Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods under Cover of TIR Carnets (TIR Convention) of 1975 . the financial guarantee shall be valid throughout the customs territory of Ukraine . guarantors shall be provided with information on the status of all financial guarantees . customs authorities shall send a demand for payment of customs payments due . the procedure for sending such demand and the list of required documents shall be determined . financial guarantee shall not be provided unless amount of customs payments due exceeds the equivalent of EUR 1,000 . financial guarantee released (returned) within two hours upon receipt of proof of actual performance of obligations secured with the guarantee from the customs authority . multiple financial guarantee shall be provided to secure customs payments under several customs declarations or bonded transportation declarations . a general financial guarantee may be used by the AEO, which has been granted a permit to apply special simplification "general financial guarantee" at the request of the guarantor, the customs office may authorise such an operator to reduce the amount of security by: 1) 50 percent, if it has experience in carrying out customs formalities under customs regimes with a provision of a security of basic amount of general financial guarantee reduced by 50 percent or 70 percent . authorisation to apply special simplification "general financial guarantee" must specify list of goods with indication of their codes under the UKT ZED . financial guarantees in the form of an electronic document shall be provided in form of authorised e-mail notification of the guarantor to the customs authorities of Ukraine . financial guarantees may be provided in any of the forms determined by part 1 of this Article at the discretion of a person responsible for paying the customs payments . financial guarantees shall be provided during or before the declaration of goods under customs transit regime . in case of applying an individual (one-time) financial guarantee on paper, an officer of customs authority shall put imprints of relevant customs security on all copies of the financial guarantee . customs authorities shall accept financial guarantees issued by the guarantors . the financial guarantee shall be an irrevocable obligation to pay a certain amount of funds at the request of the customs authority . if the deadline set by Article 95 of this Code for delivery of goods, means of transport for commercial use under customs control is exceeded by more than 10 days . financial guarantee provided in the form of a document shall be seized by the customs authority . customs authorities shall verify the sufficiency of the amount of financial guarantee . financial guarantee shall be terminated at the request of the guarantor . a financial guarantee in the form of a document shall be implemented within three business days . in certain cases movement of goods within the territory of Ukraine in internal transit by a foreign carrier or person authorised by it may be allowed by making a cash collateral in foreign currency . the funds paid by the guarantor shall be returned to the person who made such a collateral . funds deposited as a cash collateral on the account of the customs authority without any order on their use within 1,095 days after the date when they are deposited . if it is impossible to return them, they shall be transferred to the state budget . the procedure for depositing cash collateral and return shall be determined by a central executive authority implementing the state fiscal policy . a guarantor shall be included in the register on a free-of-charge basis . a central executive authority implementing the state customs policy shall keep a register . the register shall be published on its official website at least four times a year . legal entity must obtain confirmation on compliance with current standards for banking institutions . information specified in clauses 1 and 2 of this Article must be provided by the government authorities within one month upon the date of request . the period of verification by the customs authority the availability of debts under previous financial guarantees shall not exceed three business days . customs control shall be carried out in accordance with this Code and other laws of Ukraine . timetable of means of transport engaged in scheduled international trips shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state customs policy . customs authorities shall interact with participants in foreign economic activity, AEO, other persons, whose activity is related to foreign trade . goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine (including for transit) may be subject to official control measures . preliminary documentary examination shall commence upon presentation of goods, commercial means of transport and documents for such goods at the border checkpoint (control point) of Ukraine . preliminary documentary examination shall be terminated by an official of the customs authority in case of statutory requirement for carrying out appropriate official control measure by the relevant authorised body . authorised bodies shall carry out appropriate sanitary measures in connection with the threat of the introduction of pathogens of animal diseases . single state information web portal "single window for international trade" shall automatically generate and send to the declarant, the customs authority and the relevant authorised state authority notice of non-submission of information . declaration of goods as subject to official control measures shall be carried out on the basis of information contained in the unified automatic information system of customs authorities of Ukraine . documents and information for official control measures shall be entered into the Single State Information Web Portal “Single Window for International Trade” by the declarant (person authorised by him/her) before or simultaneously with the submission of customs declaration for release of goods into the customs regime chosen . an official of the relevant authorised body carrying out control measures in respect of goods at their destination point in the territory of Ukraine shall make the relevant decision within two working hours . if the legislation of Ukraine provides for the implementation, within the framework of official control measures, of certain procedures not specified in clause 1 of this part, the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall ensure the possibility of introducing information on such procedures into the Single State Information Web Portal "Single Window for International Trade" customs authorities of Ukraine shall complete customs clearance of goods with observance of time limits stipulated in Article 255 of this Code . provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to goods recognised as humanitarian assistance in accordance with the Law of Ukraine “On humanitarian aid” customs authorities shall coordinate the work of the relevant authorised bodies . the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall maintain a register of border checkpoints (control points) of Ukraine . forms and scope of customs control shall be selected by customs officials . the forms and scope of customs control shall be determined in the manner prescribed by this Code . at the request of the holder of the goods, the customs authorities shall notify of it in writing within an hour . if based on the results of the risk management system or customs official suggests that no customs inspection of goods, commercial means of transport is needed, customs clearance and release of these goods shall be carried out without conducting inspection thereof . customs officials have the right of unimpeded access to the territory or premises of entities for customs control . goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine with their packaging and marking shall be presented in the unaltered state . the documents for the goods and means of transport shall be submitted to the appropriate customs authority . customs authorities may use technical and special equipment as well as working dogs . application of equipment for customs control shall be friendly to human life and health, animals and plants . loading, unloading, reloading and removal of damaged packaging may be permitted . identification means may be applied by customs authorities to goods, commercial means of transport under customs control . single numbered locking and sealing devices, seals, holographic labels, numerical, alphabetic or other marking, identification signs, stamping, sampling and probing . identification may be ensured by an entity that has been authorised to apply such special simplification . seals of a special type shall be applied to goods, individual package units or other packages, containers, commercial means of transport . specialists and experts may be engaged in customs control if necessary . costs related to the engagement of experts by the customs authority shall be covered by the state budget . customs control areas shall be set up for the customs authorities . customs areas may be permanent or temporary . rules shall cover official orders, prohibitions and/or restrictions . customs authorities within their powers shall have the right to take enforcement actions against violators of the customs control area rules . documents and information required to carry out customs controls shall be determined by this Code and other laws of Ukraine Chapter 49 . citizens who do not cross customs border of Ukraine, officials of other state authorities which do not carry out official control measures, shall be allowed only with written permission . customs authorities shall require persons moving goods to provide documents and information required for customs control . law enforcement agencies, financial institutions and other regulatory authorities of Ukraine in accordance with the law shall notify the customs . authorities shall be entitled to send written requests and receive documents or their certified copies, information, including soft copies . a document that accompanies international mail (if any) determined by the acts of the Universal Postal Union; commercial documents for goods being carried . if carried by water transport: a general declaration containing the name and description of a vessel, details of its registration and nationality, captain’s name, surname and address of vessel’s agent . cargo declaration contains information on the name of ports of departure, ports of call, loading and unloading of goods . transport (shipping) documents for the goods (if any) that contain, inter alia, information on the total number of goods, number of packages, description of goods . information on (non-)availability of goods aboard, which are prohibited or restricted to be imported into the customs territory of Ukraine . if carried by air transport: carrier’s standard document stipulated by the international civil aviation agreements . if carried by railway transport: а) transport (traffic) documents; b) rolling stock transfer slip; c) a document that accompanies international mail (if any) determined by the acts of the universal postal union; e) commercial documents (if available to the carrier) for the goods being transported . documents (information) confirming that prohibitions and/or restrictions on goods crossing the customs border of Ukraine imposed by the laws of Ukraine shall be presented . a declaration of customs value of goods shall be submitted to the customs authority . a simplified customs declaration used for customs clearance of goods declared by the AEO shall only contain information in accordance with the following clauses of this part . the declaration shall contain information on the name, volume (quantity) and cost of goods to be imported into customs territory of Ukraine. customs control shall be carried out directly by the officials of the customs authority . customs examination of documents and information submitted to the authorities when goods, commercial means of transport are moving across customs border of Ukraine . inspection of territories and premises of temporary storage warehouses, customs warehouses . documents and information submitted to customs authorities when goods, commercial means of transport are moving across the customs border of Ukraine . format and logical control shall cover an automated verification of the accuracy of data input in customs declarations and verification results . risk management system control shall comprise risk assessment by analysing (including through information technology) documents submitted in a particular case for customs control and customs clearance . declarant shall submit the documents indicated in the notification to the customs authorities for post-customs control within 15 calendar days from the date of receipt of such notification . customs authority shall notify the declarant about the results of post- customs control in written or electronic form . goods detected (found) in the course of customs control in customs areas . customs officials may re-examine goods if there are sufficient grounds for considering that goods and means of transport are moving across the customs border of Ukraine . the costs related to such (re-)examination shall be paid by the holder of the goods, commercial means of transportation . (Re-)examination of goods, commercial means of transport shall be carried out in the presence of the person carrying those goods . witnesses shall be persons who are not interested in the results of (re-) examination . findings shall be documented in the report drawn up in two copies, containing information on officials of the customs authority . hand luggage or baggage of a citizen contains goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine . customs authority shall have the right to carry out examination, and, if necessary, re-examination of hand luggage and baggage with their unpacking . if there are grounds for considering that unaccompanied baggage contains goods hazardous to human life and health, animals and plants, as well as the environment . personal inspection as an exceptional form of customs control shall be carried out under the written decision of the head or deputy head of the customs authority . a citizen subject to personal inspection shall be entitled to: 1) read and understand the decision on personal inspection and its sequence before personal inspection . personal inspection shall be conducted in an isolated room that meets sanitary and hygiene requirements . witnesses shall be persons who are not interested in the results of the inspection . access to the premises, where the inspection is carried out, by any citizens not involved in the inspection are excluded . customs officials may question orally citizens and business officials for the purposes of customs control . inspection of the territory and premises of temporary storage warehouses, duty-free shops, free customs zones, and other places, for whose control the customs authorities are responsible, are conducted . inspection shall be conducted as long as one day unless otherwise provided by the law . customs officials shall issue a report, a copy of which is given to the head of the reviewed entity . desktop audit to verify compliance with the customs legislation of Ukraine . customs authorities shall be entitled to carry out customs control through desktop audit . desktop audits shall verify compliance with the customs legislation of Ukraine . customs officials must exercise powers specified in this Code exclusively to the extent required to clarify the issues concerned . audit findings shall be documented in the report (statement) customs officials shall take legally established actions if there are indications of customs offence . on-site desktop audits shall be carried out under the order of the appropriate customs authority . unscheduled on-site desktop audit shall be an audit of an entity that is not scheduled by the customs authority . the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy may initiate such audit only if official investigation or criminal proceedings are commenced . auditee must provide reasonable representations and documentary evidence at the written request of the custom . authority within 10 working days upon receipt of such request . auditee lodges an appeal against the audit report or a complaint against the tax notice served based on such audit . additional audit shall be focused only on the issues appealed . on-site desktop audit shall not exceed 30 working days . audits carried out at the request of the entity itself, authorised economic operators . on-site desktop audit may be suspended under the order of the customs authority . if at least one of the following grounds exists: 1) there is a need for the entity to recover lost documents or a justified need for additional time to present the documents . the decision to suspend and renew desktop audit shall be taken by the head or deputy head . customs officials authorised to conduct the audit are prohibited to stay in the auditee’s premises for the period when the audit is suspended . auditees are required to verify monetary, financial and accounting documents . audits must be carried out as prescribed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . auditors must inspect production, warehousing, commercial and other facilities . customs officials are obliged to carry out an audit in accordance with its programme approved by the appropriate audit order of the customs authority . they must respect the rights and legitimate interests of the auditee's employees and avoid causing damage through unlawful decisions, actions or omission . in the course of on-site desktop audit, they must: 1) carry out a customs offence report; 2) assess the amount of tax liabilities of the entity in the manner prescribed by this Code . customs officials shall be entitled to conduct cross-checks in the course of the on-site desktop audit . results of a cross check shall be used only to confirm or refute the information . the audit shall be carried out in the manner prescribed by the central executive authority . customs officials shall be entitled to conduct desktop audits if there are reasonable grounds for it as prescribed by this Code . the auditee’s officials are entitled to: (a) conduct a desktop audit of the declarant or a cross-check at the entity . (b) carry out an on-site desktop audit if the customs authorities have reasonable grounds to believe that the audit is in the public interest . the auditee’s officials shall be obliged to: 1) not to interfere with legitimate activities of the customs officials in the course of the audit . customs authority auditors shall have the right to inspect, inspect, examine and inspect customs-related documents . if the audit is carried out by a third party, the third party shall be entitled to an indemnity in accordance with the law . off-site desktop audits shall be focused on data about timeliness, accuracy, completeness of assessment and payment of customs charges . presence of authorised officials of the auditee or a citizen concerned in the course of audit shall not be required . the audit shall be conducted under the order of the customs authority . audit period may be extended for the term and on the grounds provided for in part 9, Article 346 of this Code . customs officials may use documents specified in this Code; tax information; expert opinions; 4) court decisions; 5) documented particulars, obtained from the competent foreign authorities . auditee shall provide the customs authority auditors with a full package of documents . documents which constitute a trade secret or are deemed to be confidential shall be passed to the customs authority official separately from other documents . requests for documents (their copies), representations, and references shall be sent to the auditee’s head or a person authorised by him/her . the head of the customs authority shall take a reasoned decision within two working days upon receipt of the auditee’s application for extension of the period for the provision of documents (their copies) audit findings shall be documented in the form of a report or statement . the audit shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of article 354 of the penal code . if the audit identifies any violations, there shall be issued a statement. audit report (statement) shall be made in two original copies signed by the customs authority auditors . the time for drawing up an audit report shall not be included in the audit period established by this Code . if the auditee’s head or a person authorised by him/her refuses to sign the desktop audit report or statement, customs officials shall document it in separate report . objections shall be considered by the customs authority within five working days . the auditee’s head or a person authorised by him/her shall be entitled to engage in the consideration of objections to the audit report or statement . tax notice shall be issued by the head or deputy head of the customs authority . audit report shall contain the facts of the understated and overstated tax liabilities . citizens subject to off-site desktop audit in accordance with Article 351 of the Code . customs declarations and documents referred to in Article 335 of this Code shall be stored . provisions of part one of this Article shall not apply to paper-based documents . probes (samples) of goods shall be taken by customs officials . probes (samples) of goods under customs control by officials of other state authorities, declarants or persons authorised by them shall be carried out jointly with the relevant customs officials . customs authorities may require the foreign economic entities to provide only technical and production documentation . probes (samples) of goods other than large-size and technically sophisticated ones shall be taken in a minimum amount in two (test and control) copies, each of them being enough for examination . standards for the taking of probes shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy . probes (samples) of perishable goods or goods with a limited storage period shall be delivered for testing (analysis, expert examination) no later than the next day after their taking . customs authorities may, in writing, require producers, foreign economic entities and citizens to provide available technical and production documentation . testing (analysis, expert examination) of probes (samples) shall be conducted within 10 days upon their receipt . the testing of samples of goods that are perishable or have limited shelf life shall be carried out instantly . in case of failure to conduct the testing within the period fixed by this Article, or impossibility of conducting it, the customs authority shall inform the declarant . the opinion on the results of testing (analysis, expert examination) shall contain: place and date of testing; person in charge and permission for testing; questions put to the expert . in case of lack of clarity and completeness of the expert opinion, additional testing may be initiated . control probes (samples) of goods that are perishable or have limited shelf life shall be kept over their storage life . probes (samples) of goods that contain narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues or precursors, potent or toxic substances shall be passed to the customs authority that initiated such testing . the testing (analysis, expert examination) is paid at the expense of the state budget . non-application of certain customs controls shall not constitute an exemption from compulsory compliance with the procedure of movement of goods, commercial means of transport across the customs border of Ukraine . hand luggage and accompanied baggage of the president, chairman of the verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, members of the parliament of Ukraine and their family members travelling with them shall not be subject to customs examination . customs authorities shall apply a risk management system to identify goods, means of transport, documents and persons that are subject to customs control . risk analysis is a systematic use of available information by the customs authority to determine the circumstances and conditions of risk occurrence . risks analysis objects shall include: characteristics of goods moved across customs border of Ukraine; nature of foreign economic operation . the automated risk management system operates at the central level and involves the use of random selection . if goods, commercial means of transport moved across the customs border of Ukraine in 25 per cent and more instances of such movement during a year are subject to customs control . citizens may move across the customs border of Ukraine any goods, except for those prohibited for import into Ukraine (including transit) and export from Ukraine . citizens entering or leaving the territory of Ukraine by means of road and rail transport, as well as by personal vehicles, are allowed to declare the goods . customs controls shall not be carried out with regard to transit passengers who do not leave the transit zone . customs clearance of goods imported into customs territory of Ukraine by citizens . movement of coffins with bodies (urns with ashes) or remains of the dead . two-channel system allows citizens to make a declaration by choosing one of two channels . citizens passing (driving) through the “green corridor” shall be exempt from the submission of a written customs declaration . citizens shall have the right to send goods across the customs border of Ukraine by international postal and express mail . personal belongings moved (shipped) by citizens across the customs border of Ukraine in hand luggage, accompanied and unaccompanied luggage, shall not be taxed . personal hygiene products and individual cosmetics in quantities that meet the needs of one person for the duration of the trip . clothing, underwear, footwear that have a purely personal character, are intended exclusively for personal use . regular and/or walking strollers in the amount corresponding to the number of children crossing the border with a citizen . medicines that are moved (shipped) across the customs border of Ukraine in accordance with the procedure and in volumes determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . goods, the total invoice value of which does not exceed the equivalent of 10 000 Euros are not subject to a written declaration . goods, the total invoice value of which does not exceed the equivalent of 10,000 euros, are subject to written declaration in the manner prescribed for citizens . goods exported in connection with leaving Ukraine for the place of permanent residence, part of the inheritance executed in Ukraine in favor of a non-resident . goods purchased by non-residents on the territory of Ukraine, the total invoice value of which does not exceed the amount of foreign currency brought by these citizens into Ukraine . goods exported by citizens in connection with the final departure outside Ukraine are subject to written declaration in the manner prescribed for citizens . temporary export (shipment) by residents of goods outside the customs territory of ukraine shall be accompanied by the obligation to re-import . export (shipment) by citizens outside the customs territory of Ukraine of certain goods is prohibited . export of bank metals, commemorative coins of Ukraine made of precious metals and cultural values for the purpose of alienation is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . it is not allowed to export alcoholic beverages and tobacco products . by citizens under 18 years of age . goods with invoice value not exceeding the equivalent of 1,000 euros not subject to customs duties . norm set forth by part 1 of this Article shall be applied if a person importing goods into the customs territory of Ukraine enters Ukraine at most once in one day . officials of state border security who carry out passport control at checkpoints across the state border of Ukraine shall inform customs officials . goods imported by citizens in hand luggage and/or accompanied luggage exceeding the limits established by part 1 of this Article, but not exceeding the equivalent of 10 000 euros . such goods are subject to import duty at a rate of 10 per cent and value-added tax . cultural values manufactured 50 or more years ago, regardless of their cost and the method of movement across the customs border of Ukraine . goods (except excisable) with the total invoice value not exceeding the equivalent of 150 euros, moved in unaccompanied baggage, are subject to oral declaration on the basis of shipping documents . import duty at a rate of 10 per cent and value-added tax at the rate set by the Tax Code of Ukraine . personal belongings defined by Article 370 of this Code are exempt from customs duties . cultural values manufactured 50 or more years ago are also exempt . goods intended to meet the usual daily needs of the citizen and the initial accommodation . vehicles for personal use, classified in one of the headings 8702, 8703 . c) goods classified under heading 8716 according to UKT ZED (in the amount of one unit per adult citizen) personal vehicles classified in one of the headings 8702, 8703 or 8704 . d) goods that are part of the inheritance by law outside Ukraine in favor of a resident . vehicles for personal use temporarily imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by non-residents, as well as fuel contained in ordinary tanks of such vehicles . goods (except vehicles) that have the signs of those that were in use and intended for own housing and livelihoods of citizens abroad on business trips (training) goods imported (shipped) within six months from the date of return of such citizens to Ukraine after the end of the business trip . import of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products into the customs territory of Ukraine by citizens under the age of 18 is not allowed . citizens over 18 may import in hand luggage or accompanied luggage without payment of customs duties and without written declaration . goods specified in part 1 of this Article, which are imported by citizens into the ukraine for free circulation are subject to mandatory certification . goods imported by citizens into the customs territory of Ukraine for free circulation, specified in part 1 of this Article, may be alienated or transferred to the possession, use or disposal by other persons before state registration of these goods . in order to prevent the illicit traffic of vehicles on the territory of ukraine the central executive authority implements state customs policy and the state road safety authorities . citizens shall have the right to import temporarily or for the purpose of transit goods with the total invoice value and total weight not exceeding the criteria established by part 1 of Article 374 of this Code . temporary importation into the customs territory of Ukraine of domestic animals in the amount of not more than 3 mammals, 6 birds, 20 aquarium fish . temporary importation by non-residents into the customs territory of Ukraine of personal vehicles is allowed for a period of up to one year . vehicles must be registered in the authorised bodies of the foreign states that is confirmed by the corresponding document . fuel contained in the usual (factory-installed) tanks of such vehicles is not subject to written declaration . temporary importation by residents into the customs territory of Ukraine of other vehicles for personal use is allowed for a period of up to one year . vehicles imported by residents in connection with the performance of their duties under employment contracts with non-resident enterprises . terms provided for in the first, second, third and fifth paragraphs of this part may be extended by customs authorities . temporary imported vehicles for personal use may be used in the customs territory of Ukraine only by citizens who have imported them into Ukraine for their personal needs . vehicles cannot be used for business purposes and/or income generation in Ukraine, nor disassembled or transferred to other persons for possession, use or disposal . citizens are allowed to place in the transit customs regime personal use vehicles for the purpose of transit through the ukraine . the movement of personal use vehicles for the purpose of transit through the customs territory of Ukraine shall be carried out within the time limits established by Article 95 of this Code . in case of destruction or complete damage of personal vehicles placed in the transit customs regime, their transit shall be suspended . motor vehicles intended for official use by diplomatic missions of foreign states in Ukraine may be imported by these missions under the conditions specified in part 1 of this Article . the head of a diplomatic mission and members of the diplomatic staff of the mission, as well as members of their families residing with them, may import into Ukraine goods intended for personal use, including items of initial accommodation . members of diplomatic staff of a foreign state and members of their families living with them may import into Ukraine goods intended for initial accommodation . list of goods that can be classified as those intended to be initial accommodation is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . persons specified in part 1 of this Article may import motor vehicles intended for personal use with exemption from customs duties in the amount of not more than one motor vehicle per family . employees of consular staff, as well as members of their families, may be subject to customs privileges provided under this Code . diplomattic mail and consular bag of foreign states moved across customs border of Ukraine not subject to breaking seal or holding . foreign diplomatic couriers may import into Ukraine and export from Ukraine goods intended for their personal use, with exemption on the basis of reciprocity . diplomattic staff, consular officials of foreign missions, members of their families, as well as persons specified in part 1 of this Article, shall be granted customs privileges . in the event that a diplomatic mission of Ukraine or its staff is granted a less favorable treatment by a foreign state, a similar regime shall be applied . privileges for international organisations and related representations of foreign states and their personnel shall be determined by international treaties . customs privileges provided for in Article 383, part 2 of Article 384, Articles 385, 386, 388, 389, 391 of this Code shall be terminated . motor vehicles intended for official use by representations of foreign states and international organisations in Ukraine shall be declared to the customs authorities . when carrying out customs clearance of such vehicles means of ensuring their identification shall be applied . motor vehicles intended for personal use by staff members of representations of foreign states and international organisations in Ukraine shall be declared to the customs authorities at the place of residence . foreign diplomatic missions of Ukraine may export from Ukraine goods intended for official use and logistics of the institution, including representative products . employees of the diplomatic service of Ukraine who are sent on long-term business trips or for diplomatic service abroad may also export goods . customs authorities shall apply the following measures to goods suspected of infringing intellectual property rights . goods moved by citizens to the customs territory of Ukraine or abroad are not subject to customs control and customs clearance . in case of suspicion of infringement of intellectual property rights, customs authorities shall suspend execution of customs formalities in respect of such goods . customs control and customs clearance of goods containing property items, protected in accordance with the law, shall be carried out per standard procedure . if goods containing intellectual property items have been moved across the customs border of Ukraine in violation of intellectual property rights, the right holder shall not be entitled to repair of any material damage from customs authorities . storage of goods, customs clearance of which has been suspended under articles 399, 400  401-1of this Code shall be paid, starting from the next calendar day after the day of their placement in such a warehouse . customs authorities may use additional information resources to identify goods suspected of infringing intellectual property rights . the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy shall publish the list of intellectual property items entered in the customs register . the right holder may use the information obtained from the customs authority only for the purposes related to the suspension of customs clearance of goods . if within the first 10 working days upon receipt of the notification of suspension a legal action to ensure the protection of intellectual property rights is initiated, the suspension period may be extended . in the event of suspension of clearance of perishable goods, the period of suspension shall be three working days and shall not be extended. right holder may apply to customs authority for resumption of customs formalities . if customs clearance of goods containing intellectual property items is suspended, declarant reimbursed for expenses and losses caused by suspension of clearance . customs authority may, at its own initiative, suspend customs clearance of goods . right holder must file an application for facilitation of protection of their intellectual property rights . customs authorities may request right holders to provide information that may assist in confirming or denying the said infringement . if the right holder submits an application for facilitation of protection of their intellectual property rights within three working days, customs clearance of such goods shall be suspended . the owner of goods or their authorised person may apply to the customs authority for early release of goods . the right holder notifies the customs authority that suspended customs clearance in writing that there are signs of infringement of their intellectual property rights . the declarant gives the written consent of the goods owner to their destruction . destruction of goods whose customs . clearance has been suspended shall be carried out by the . goods owner or their authorised person within 10 working days . in case of actual destruction of goods, the owner of such goods shall be exempt from administrative liability under Article 476 of this Code . the right holder shall be considered authorised by the goods owner to place such goods under customs regime of destruction or elimination . the customs authority shall notify the declarant by fax and/or e-mail of the reasons for suspension of customs clearance of goods . if within 10 working days after the notification of suspension, the declarer consents to the destruction of the goods in the manner prescribed by part 10 of this Article . the cost of storage, transportation, destruction, paperwork and other costs associated with the destruction shall be at the expense of the right holder and under their responsibility. right holder shall inform the customs authority about the destruction of goods . it is allowed to change identification marks or markings on goods or their packing to eliminate the signs of infringement of intellectual property rights . permission for the opening and exploitation of a duty-free shop is granted by the central executive authority implementing state customs policy . permission to carry out customs brokerage activities is also granted by customs . the decision to grant a permit must be taken within 20 working days from the date of receipt of the application by the body authorised to grant the permit. permission may be refused in compliance with the term established by Article 409 of this Code, in case the applicant fails to comply with the requirements established for its receipt . permits may be revoked or suspended for the period up to 30 days by the bodies authorised to grant such permits . permissions for carrying out the activities specified in Article 404 of this Code shall be granted and reissued free of charge . customs broker provides services for declaring goods, commercial vehicles that move across the customs border of Ukraine . duty-free shops are specialised trade bodies located at a checkpoint across the state border of Ukraine . they sell goods to citizens travelling outside the customs territory of Ukraine, as well as to passengers of international flights operated by residents . the rules for the sale of goods by duty free shops to citizens are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. a customs control zone shall be created in the premises of a duty-free shop . holder of duty free shop is obliged to declare goods entering the store or leaving the store . the revocation of the permit for opening and operation of this shop is prohibited by law . ustoms warehouse is a suitably equipped storage room, tank, refrigerator or freezer, indoor or outdoor area intended for storage of goods under customs control . relationship of the holder of an open-type customs warehouse with persons who place goods in this warehouse shall be determined by the relevant agreement . in case of suspension the permit for opening and operation of a duty-free trade store shall be prohibited . goods may be placed in customs warehouses on initiative of the customs authority . goods placed under different customs regimes, which are in the same warehouse, are stored there separately . Dangerous goods, goods that may harm other goods, or goods that require special storage conditions may not be placed . the holder of the customs warehouse shall bear the responsibility provided by this Code and other laws of Ukraine . in case of loss of goods in carrying out operations provided by part two of Article 127 of this Code, the owner of the goods is obliged to pay customs payments established by law . in case of suspension or revocation of the permit for opening and operation of a customs warehouse, placement of new consignments of goods in this warehouse shall not be allowed . free customs zones can be of commercial, service and industrial types . free customs zones of commercial and service types shall be established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy . Article 432. Powers of customs authorities to establish requirements for the arrangement and organisation of work . the customs authority in the area of activity in which the free zone is located must ensure: 1) the construction of a fence along the perimeter of the territory of the zone, and appropriate equipment of checkpoints . foreign and Ukrainian goods may be imported into the territory of the free customs zone . Dangerous goods, goods that may harm other goods, or goods that require special storage conditions, are allowed in the territory . goods arriving in Ukraine as humanitarian supplies, as well as goods, whose list is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, are prohibited . the holder of a free customs zone or persons carrying out manipulations with goods in the territory of this zone shall keep records of all foreign and Ukrainian goods located in the specified zone . the customs authorities have the right to require the submission of an extraordinary report no more than once a year . in case of suspension or revocation of the permit for opening and exploitation of the zone of commercial or service type, it is not allowed the placement of new consignments of goods in this zone. the warehouse of temporary storage of open type is intended for storage of goods belonging to any persons . the procedure of placement, storage and accounting of goods, commercial vehicles in a temporary storage warehouse is determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy . dangerous goods, goods that may harm other goods, or goods that require special storage conditions may be placed only in warehouses with appropriate conditions . a temporary storage warehouse is a section of territory with a complex of buildings, structures, engineering and technical means and communications necessary for customs control and customs clearance . the holder of a cargo customs complex is liable to ensure: 1) the provision of intermediary services for declaring goods transfering across the customs border of Ukraine and of commercial vehicles . in case of suspension or revocation, it is not allowed the placement of new consignments of goods in this warehouse . holder of cargo customs complex is obliged to comply with the provisions of this Code . requirements for the arrangement of the complex shall be established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy . customs statistics is generalised and appropriately systematised information on the movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine . statistics are used in favour of strengthening foreign economic relations, improving customs and non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity, further integration of Ukraine into the global system of economic relations . special customs statistics is a system of collection, processing, analysis, dissemination, storage, protection and the use of statistic information . information on exports and imports of specific types of goods shall be provided to central executive authorities upon their motivated request (once) or by automated exchange of information in cases established by Law . the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy has access as a user to automated information and reference systems . central executive authority implementing the state customs policy, shall provide, in cases and in the manner prescribed by law, to other bodies authorised to exercise currency control, the information necessary for the exercise of such control . statistics on international trade is used for: 1) the determination of strategy, tactics and main directions of development of international economic activity . the central executive authority implementing the state customs policy keeps centralised records of persons (residents and non-residents) declarants, carriers, guarantors, authorised economic operator, other enterprises . registration of persons who in the course of their activities are participants in relations governed by the legislation of Ukraine on customs matters shall be carried out by the customs authorities . the registration number of a person is valid throughout the customs territory of Ukraine . failure to register with customs authorities is grounds for refusal to accept customs declaration . Article 456. Controlled supply of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors . the procedure of conducting non-public control over the movement of goods is determined by this Code . violations of customs rules is an administrative offence, which is an illegal, culpable (intentional or negligent) actions or inactivity . administrative liability for offences provided in this Code shall arise if they do not entail criminal liability . violations of customs rules do not entail administrative liability provided by this Code . carriers are responsible for the movement or actions aimed at moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine . warnings and fines may be applied only as basic administrative penalties . confiscation of goods, vehicles referred to in clause 3 of Article 461 of this Code may also be applied . administrative penalties for customs rules violation may not be applied otherwise than on the basis and in the manner prescribed by this Code and other laws of Ukraine . a fine is to compel a person called to administrative responsibility for such an offence, the obligation to pay cash to the state budget . customs authorities may impose administrative penalties in cases of customs rules violation . administrative penalties may be imposed not later than six months from the date of detection . violations may entail a warning or imposition of a fine of twenty non-taxable minimum incomes . operations not provided by Articles 203, 325 of this Code entail a warning or imposition of a fine in the amount of twenty non-taxable minimum incomes . change of condition of goods, customs clearance of which is not completed, or goods that are in temporary storage under customs control . non-delivery of goods, including personal vehicles, commercial vehicles and documents to customs authority destination, their issuance without the permission of the customs authorities or their loss . exceeding time limit for delivery entails a warning or a fine of ten non-taxable minimum incomes . breach of the procedure established by this Code for customs control in the zones (corridors) of simplified customs controls entails a fine of one hundred non-taxable minimum incomes . non-declaration of goods, commercial vehicles moving across the customs border of Ukraine . resistance to a customs official to have an access to goods, vehicles, documents . obstruction of a customs official during customs control or proceedings entails a fine of one hundred non-taxable minimum incomes . Article 475. Failure to submit a report on the movement of goods to the customs authority, as well as violation of the procedure for keeping records of such goods . breach of the procedure established by law for the import of goods into the free customs zone, export of goods from this territory, operations with goods placed in a free custom zone . carrying out operations with the goods stored in customs warehouses without the permission of the customs authority entails the imposition of a fine of twenty non-taxable minimum incomes . breach of procedure established by this Code and other acts of the legislation of Ukraine for carrying out operations on processing of goods, entails the imposition of a fine of one thousand non-taxable minimum incomes . a fine of five thousand non-taxable minimum incomes is imposed for exceeding the term of temporary import of personal vehicles and commercial vehicles into the customs territory of Ukraine for more than twenty days, but not more than thirty days . Article 482. movement of goods, commercial vehicles across customs border of Ukraine outside customs control is punishable by fine of 100 percent of the value of goods and vehicles . actions aimed at moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine with dissimulation from customs control, notably using specially made storages (hiding places) or by means of giving some goods the appearance of others . actions provided by part one of this Article, committed by the person during the year was prosecuted for committing an offence under this Article or Article 482 of this Code . submitting in the public declaration for the reason of wrongful payment of money from the payment of public payments entails the imposition of a fine of 300 percent of the unpaid amount of customs duties . the task of implementation in cases of violation is the timely, comprehensive, return and objective establishment of each case, resolving it on compliance with the law . officials are obliged to find out whether an administrative offence has been committed . protocol on violations of customs rules can be drawn up by officials authorised to detect violations . grounds for initiating a case of violation of a customs rule are direct detection of violations by officials of the customs authority . proceedings in the case of violation of customs rules shall be carried out by customs officials . special procedural actions may be performed by officials of another customs authority . the head of the central executive authority implementing the state customs policy or his deputy has the right to transfer the case . the person who is held to administrative liability for violation of customs rules has the right to explain and comment on the content of the protocol . the explanations given by this person shall be attached to the protocol and an appropriate entry shall be made in the protocol, indicating the number of sheets on which such explanations have been submitted . seized goods, including vehicles for personal use, commercial vehicles and documents specified in the protocol, shall be transferred to the customs office in the area where the violation of customs rules was detected . the protocol and seized items shall be handed over to customs authorities . in case of closing criminal proceedings on smuggling, materials on such violation are transferred to a court . defenders, customs authorities, witnesses, experts, translators and attesting witnesses may take part in proceedings . representatives of persons who are held to administrative liability for violation of customs rules may include: owners of goods, vehicles referred in clause 3 of Article 461 of this Code . legal representatives may entrust participation in the case to another person elected by them as a representative . power of attorney for a serviceman may be certified by the commander of a military unit . customs officials, judges, prosecutors, crime investigators and employees of the unit that carries out operational and investigative actions may not be representatives . lawyers and other specialists in the field of law are allowed as defenders . close relatives of a person subject to administrative liability for violating customs rules . defender shall be allowed to participate in the case at any stage of the proceedings . a representative of the customs authority has the right to review the documents attached to the case, make extracts from them or take copies . a person who has necessary knowledges to provide an appropriate opinion can be an expert . the translator is a man who is proficient in a language, such as these knowledges are necessary for making the translation during the proceedings . a witness has the right to testify in his native language or another language he is fluent in . a relative of a person who is held administratively liable for violating customs regulations may not testify . the witness may refuse to give explanations about himself, family members and close relatives . a customs official may not bring about proceedings in the case of violation of customs rules if he is a relative of the person prosecuted for this offence . administrative detention is carried out by an official of the customs authority by the motivated written decision of the head of this authority or his/her deputy . in the case of detection of violation of customs rules, the period of administrative detention is calculated from the moment of issuance of a motivated written decision . the protocol must indicate: date and place of compilation; position, surname, name and patronymic of the person who drew up the protocol . if the detained non-resident citizen has no relatives on the territory of Ukraine, it is necessary to inform a diplomatic mission . an official of the customs authority, who has a case of violation of customs rules, may interview the person who is brought to administrative responsibility for this offence . a protocol on the survey shall be drawn up in the form established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. goods – direct objects of violation of customs rules may be temporarily seized . documents in electronic form are removed together with the appropriate media . temporary seizure of goods, including personal vehicles, commercial vehicles, as well as relevant documents is mandatory . customs officials have the right to invite specialists to participate in the customs inspection . the person who committed the violation, as well as the witness may be presented goods, vehicles, documents for identification . a protocol on the presentation for identification shall be drawn up in the form established by the central executive authority . a customs official has the right to conduct an independent examination at his expense . the issue posed to the expert and his conclusion should not go beyond his special knowledge . in case of improper quality or incompleteness of the expert's conclusion, a re-examination may be appointed . official of customs authority has the right to take samples and specimens for examination . the person in respect of whom the case of violation has been initiated can apply for samples . a protocol must be drawn up on the taking of samples, specimens . Expenditures in the case of violation of customs rules include funds paid to the expert . the average monthly salary at the place of the main job is kept by workers and employees . a procedure for reimbursement of expenditures in case of violations is established . a person who has violated customs rules is obliged to contribute the funds to the state budget in the amount equal to the amount of the fine provided by the sanction of the relevant Article of this Code . if according to the conclusion of the customs authority, the sale of these goods and vehicles is impossible, they shall be declared in customs regime of refusal in favour of the state . a standard amicable agreement shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy . in case of non-performance by the person who violated the customs rules and the actions specified in Part two of this Article, proceedings shall be resumed . cases of violation of customs regulations, committed by persons under 18 years old, are considered by district, city or city district courts . a case on violation of customs rules shall be considered at the location of the customs authority whose officials carried out the proceedings in this case . in the case of a customs rule violation, the court (judge) shall issue one of the following resolutions: 1) on conducting an additional inspection; 2) on the imposition of an administrative penalty; 3) on the closure of the proceedings . a case of violation of customs rules shall be considered by a judge alone . if this resolution is revoked and the case is closed, then confiscated goods, vehicles are returned . the procedure for appealing against resolutions in cases of violation is described in article 529 . a complaint (administrative claim) against the decision of the customs authority in the case of violation of customs rules shall be filed within the period established by the Code of Ukraine on Administrative offences . the resolution of the court (judge) in a case . of violation may be appealed by the person in respect of whom it was issued, the . representative of such person or customs authorities . in case of cancellation of the resolution in the case of violation of customs rules, the amounts of fines shall be returned to the persons who were brought to administrative responsibility for this offence . the control of the legality and validity of the decision by the court is carried out in the manner prescribed by the Code of Administrative Procedure of Ukraine . resolutions of customs authorities on imposition of administrative penalties are binding . resolutions are enforced after expiration of the period of appeal specified in Article 529 of this Code . customs authority that issued decision executes it independently or through a state executor . fine must be paid by the person who violated the customs rules, not later than 15 days from the date of delivery or sending a copy of the decision . the amount of fine shall be paid to the state budget in accordance with the procedure established by the legislation of Ukraine . resolution of customs authority on imposition of penalty on persons residing or staying outside Ukraine shall be executed at the expense of the property of these persons located on the territory of Ukraine . customs authorities are responsible for creating favorable conditions for the development of foreign economic activity, ensuring public safety, protecting customs interests . ensuring the collection of customs payments, control of the correctness of calculation, timeliness and completeness of their payment . implementation of state export control within the scope of the powers vested in the customs authorities in accordance with this Code and other laws of Ukraine . customs is a customs authority which in the area of its activity ensures the implementation of tasks assigned to customs authorities . customs carries out its actions on the territory of one, two or more administrative-territorial units of Ukraine . head of the central executive authority implementing the state customs policy may delegate to the heads of customs certain powers defined by this Code . customs post is a customs authority that is part of the customs as a structural unit . creation, reorganisation and liquidation of customs posts shall be carried out by central executive authority implementing state customs policy . customs officials shall wear uniforms with appropriate insignia issued free of charge . service ID cards shall be issued to customs officials and his sample . Article 555. Property of customs authorities is state property . provision of finance, material support and infrastructure development carried out using state budget funds . customs authorities coordinate with law enforcement agencies in the performance of their tasks . they are obliged to notify in writing the signs of offences, the investigation of which does not fall within their powers . customs control and customs clearance shall be carried out by a written decision of the head of the customs authority who received this operational information . customs authorities are obliged to transmit the following information to the National Police: personal vehicles indicating the terms of their temporary import and/or movement in the customs regime of transit . Article 559. Coordination of customs bodies with local state administrations and local authorities 1. Customs authorities cooperate with ministries and other central executive authorities in the performance of tasks assigned to them . customs authorities control the movement of cultural property across the customs border of Ukraine . they cooperate with the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of cultural heritage protection . customs shall establish and pursue formal consultative relations with business entities . customs authorities of Ukraine have the right to hold working meetings with representatives of the customs authority of a neighboring foreign country . customs control procedures, customs clearance in the manner prescribed by law . smuggling and violations of customs regulations shall be detected and terminated . employees of customs authorities entrusted with tasks specified in Article 544 of this Code . customs officials take the Oath of civil servants if they have not previously taken such oath . citizens of Ukraine who have reached the age of 18 years old may be admitted to customs . contract of civil service shall be concluded for the period of three years . customs officials may not hold positions in which they can not take decisions on the actions of enterprises . the civil service contract may be extended by agreement of the parties . special titles of the customs service are assigned for term of life . customs officials are obliged to appear on duty and to work over the established daily working hours, as well as on weekends, holidays and non-working days, at night . the system of vocational education in the field of customs includes: 1) training of specialists who have higher education; 2) retraining customs officers . training, retraining and professional development of customs officers shall be carried out in specialised educational institutions . research aimed at ensuring the customs interests of Ukraine, development customs affairs and professional education in customs authorities are carried out . persons who study in a specialised higher educational institution are awarded the title "cadet", "senior cadet" customs officials are protected by law . protection of life, health, honour, dignity, property of these officials and members of their families shall be carried out in accordance with the Criminal code of Ukraine and the Code of Ukraine on Administrative Offences . customs official may use physical force, special means and firearms in line of duty . customs officials have the right to store, carry and use firearms in the line of their duties . it is prohibited to use special means to women with clear signs of pregnancy . the list of special means used is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . customs officials shall be prohibited from the storage, carrying and use of firearms and ammunition at any time, except in the performance of their official duties . the state shall ensure a sufficient level of remuneration of officials and customs authorities employees . customs officials and members of their families living with them shall enjoy their right to free medical care in public and municipal health facilities . Article586. Housing for officials of customs authorities is provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . pensions granted in accordance with the law are not paid to customs officials . employees of customs authorities are subject to compulsory state social insurance . from the day on which this Code enters into force, the following legislation shall lose its effect . law of Ukraine "on unified customs tariff" was enacted in 1992, according to the official bulletin of the verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . law of ukraine "on amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on sources of financing for the road sector of Ukraine" ukrainian customs authorities have been criticized for a lack of transparency in customs procedures . amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on taxation issues . recognition of armored branch as one of the priority Branches in the Ukrainian industry . measures to provide it with government support . law of Ukraine “on state support of book publishing in Ukraine” (2003, no. 24, article 162); amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on taxation issues (2004 and 2006) space activities (2006 and 2009) taxation of services for international transportation of passengers, luggage and cargo, international shipments, international leasing and international repair of goods (2009 and 2010) a number of amendments have been made to the law of ukraine . the following shall be temporarily exempt from import duty when imported into the customs territory of Ukraine and placed under the import customs regime . imports of alcoholic beverages, tobacco, alcohol, and tobacco products shall not be subject to import duty . the import duty shall be paid by the importer of the alcoholic beverage, unless it is otherwise exempted by law . goods that are not produced in Ukraine, except for goods under codes 4707 90 10 00,4707 90 90 00 according to UKT ZED . the tariff on the import of goods from foreign countries shall be based on the value of the ukrainian currency at the time of import . by 1 September 2012; goods (except excisable) that are not produced in Ukraine or are produced, but do not meet the technical characteristics of the world level . goods (except excisable) imported into the customs territory of Ukraine for use in the construction and equipment of airports that are facilities of the final part of European Football Championship 2012 . the procedure and volumes of import of such goods shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . a separate law shall establish the list of specified goods with the identification of their headings under UKT ZED . until 1 January 2023 – goods imported by residents – space activity entities subject to provisions of Article 2 of the Law of Ukraine “On State Support for Space Activity” the procedure, volumes of import of the specified goods and the list of residents – space activity entities shall be defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . machinery, equipment, facilities used for the reconstruction of existing and construction of new enterprises for the production of biofuels . equipment, machinery and components not produced in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by domestic enterprises of the shipbuilding industry . goods specified in this subclause shall be exempt from taxation provided that these goods are used by taxpayers for the production of machinery and/or equipment for the agro-industrial complex . the procedure, volumes of specified enterprises and goods with the identification of their headings according to UKT ZED shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . goods (except excisable) that are not produced in Ukraine or do not meet the requirements of the project, imported into the customs territory of Ukraine under the import customs regime for use in the national project "Air Express" equipment (machinery) and components thereto, imported by business entities exclusively for the implementation of investment projects . specified goods: a) are not excisable; b) manufactured not more than three years before the state registration of the investment project . for the period of projects (programmes) implementation at the expense of international technical assistance provided in accordance with the initiative of the G8 countries . import procedures and volumes of such goods with the identification of their headings according to UKT zED shall be set by the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine . until 1 January 2025 – goods imported by aircraft manufacturers subject to Article 2 of the Law of Ukraine “on state support of aircraft construction industry of Ukraine” . until 1 January 2023 – goods that are part of the national cinematographic heritage . new equipment and its components imported by an investor exclusively for their own use . exemption from import duty shall be granted within the period of the investment project implementation . exemption from import duties granted until customs authorities receive information about the achievement/excess of total state support or the termination of such support . provisions of this subclause shall not apply to goods originating in a country recognized by the occupying State in accordance with the law . the term “investor with significant investments” shall be used in the meaning, provided in the law of Ukraine “on state support of investment projects with significant investment in Ukraine” . for the period of the anti-terrorist operation and/or the implementation of measures to ensure national security and defence, repel and deter armed aggression of the Russian Federation in donetsk and luhansk regions . personal protective equipment (helmets, bulletproof vests) manufactured in accordance with military standards or technical conditions . measures of non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity established by this Code and the laws of Ukraine shall not apply to such goods . medicinal products and medical devices in accordance with subclause “c” clause 193.1 of Article 193 of the Tax Code of Ukraine, intended for use by health care institutions, participants in the anti-terrorist operation . such goods from the measures of non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity established by this Code and the laws of Ukraine are subject to a simplified procedure . temporary import of foreign goods, commercial vehicles may be allowed for the duration of the modernisation project of Bortnytsia sewage treatment plant . term of temporary import may not exceed the term of the project, which is set from the start date to the end date of the Project . the term of temporary import of goods may be increased by three months at the written request of the owner of such goods or his authorised persons . in case of violation of the requirements of this clause regarding the procedure for targeted use of goods exempt from customs duties shall be applied . goods (other than excisable) imported into the customs territory of Ukraine under import customs regime by the union of european football associations (hereinafter – UEFA) football clubs/teams participating in the final matches and matches of the UE customs control and customs clearance formalities of goods and vehicles specified in this clause shall be carried out at the venue of the final events of the UEFA Champions League 2018 . the declarants of the goods and . vehicles referred to in this paragraph, may be football clubs/teams, including domestic transport . for the period of validity of the Laws of Ukraine “On Ensuring the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Temporarily Occupied Territory of Ukraine” and “On within three months from the date of entry into force of this Code, activities specified in paragraphs 2–6 may be carried out on the basis of relevant documents of permitting nature . registration of non-residents in the customs authorities is mandatory effective July 1, 2021 . the central executive authority assesses compliance with the AEO criteria with regard to at most 10 enterprises simultaneously . the central executive authority shall accept for consideration applications for AEO-C authorisation exclusively from enterprises . conformity assessment shall be carried out within 120 days from the date of the decision to conduct it . customs authorities are allowed to use copies of permits issued by state bodies, institutions and organisations authorised to carry out permitting or control functions . procedures for customs formalities during the transit of goods, commercial vehicles between the eu, individual member countries of the common transit convention and Ukraine shall be established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy . the procedure for filling out customs declarations referred to in this paragraph shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy . the national subsystem of the computerised transit system of the European Union shall be used to ensure that the customs authorities complete customs formalities during the transit of goods . if customs duties paid with error or overpaid before the date of entry into force of this Code shall be made in accordance with the procedure established by this Code and the Tax Code of Ukraine customs clearance of vehicles for their free circulation in the customs territory of Ukraine, classified under heading 8703 according to UKT ZED, shall be carried out with the completion of customs formalities in accordance with the temporary procedure approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . for the period of 270 days from the date of entry into force of the Law of Ukraine “On Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine on Import of Vehicles into the custom . territory of ukrain by 31 December 2019 inclusive renew the validity of clauses 9-2 and 9-3 of this Section . committing violations of the customs rules provided for in parts five and sixthof Article 470 of this Code shall entail the application of an administrative penalty . draft laws on the state budget of Ukraine for 2013 and 2014 a separate line referencing the funds required in this regard . ensure the creation of an automated customs registration system in the customs authorities .