this Law defines the specifics of leasing out of individual state-owned fuel and energy complex facilities . a legal entity may be a lessee of a fuel-and-energy complex facility . the lease agreement shall be concluded within 12 months from the date of conclusion of the relevant agreement . lessee shall have the right to carry out business activities on the leased facility . decision on the expediency of leasing out fuel and energy complex facilities shall be made by the authorised management body . obtaining the conclusions of the antimonopoly committee of Ukraine on the possibility of leasing and on terms of the lease agreement shall not be mandatory . invitation to tender for the right to lease must contain information about the facility offered for lease; the period for which the facility is leased . authorised management body shall, in conjunction with the enterprise that economically manages or operates such a facility, perform its organisational preparation for lease . persons who intend to lease the fuel and energy complex facility, shall submit an application . application must be accompanied by statutory documents, financial, economic and statistical information . information about the applicant's ability to ensure proper financing of their activities . the functions of managing the facility for lease shall not be transferred to the State Property Fund of Ukraine . only those lessees who have received the appropriate conclusion of the authorised management body shall be allowed to participate in the tender . applicants shall, within 70 calendar days from the date of invitation to tender, submit tender offers to the Tender Commission . a tender winner shall be an applicant who offered the best lease terms in accordance with the tender documentation . the State Property Fund of Ukraine shall make a decision within 10 calendar days, to determine the tender winner . if the tender offer is submitted by only one participant, the fund will decide on recognising such participant as the tender winning . the lease agreement for the fuel and energy complex facilities must not differ from those terms of the original tender offer . ensuring multi-purpose utilisation of subsoil assets, preventing selective counterfeiting of stocks, excessive losses of fuel and energy resources . ensuring the storage and accounting of materials and production waste that are needed but temporarily not used . lease agreements for fuel and energy complex facilities shall be subject to notarial attestation . lease agreements shall ensure the submission of reports on coal production, state of reserves and losses of coal in the subsoil assets, state and length of mine workings . the lease agreement may specify a set of additional obligations of the lessee to improve the quality of relevant services . lessee must submit to authorised management body an application of optional form . within five working days from the date of receipt of these documents, the authorised body shall register the agreement . lessee shall ensure, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement, the use of the leased fuel and energy complex facility . lessee shall become a legal successor of the rights and obligations of the specified state-owned enterprise in accordance with the lease agreement . the state shall retain the right of ownership of leased fuel and energy complex facilities, including reconstructed or technically re-equipped by lessees at the expense of depreciation deductions . in case of lease of an integral property complex of a structural subdivision, the lessee's compliance with the terms and conditions of lease agreement shall be exercised by authorised management body . lease agreement for fuel and energy complex facilities may be terminated early . lessor has the right to request the deferral of termination of the lease agreement . improvement of the leased facility may be carried out by the lessee only with consent of the lessor . leased fuel and energy complex facilities must be returned to the lessor within 10 calendar days from the date of termination of the agreement . in case of termination due to destruction of the leased facility, the lessee shall be obliged to restore the facility at his own expense . lessee may retain improvements made at his expense, if they can be separated from such a facility without damaging it . the Law shall not apply to legal relations on lease, the concession of fuel and energy complex facilities, which arose before the entry into force of this Law . lessees or concessionaires shall have the right to participate in the procedure of debt repayment . Article 16 of the Subsoil Code of Ukraine shall be supplemented with parts eight and nine . lessee or concessionaire shall produce coal and (or) lignite (brown coal) at the leased or concessioned facility based on a valid special permit for the use of subsoil or mining allotment of a state-owned coal mining enterprise .