law shall determine the procedure for regulating social relations in the field of recognising a person as a refugee, person in need of subsidiary protection, cessation and deprivation of such a status . refugee shall mean a . person who is not a national of Ukraine and who owing to a well-founded fear . of becoming a victim of persecution for reasons of race, religion, ethnicity, nationality (citizenship) a certificate on the application for protection in Ukraine confirms that a person stays on the territory of Ukraine on legal grounds . subsidiary protection means the form of protection granted in Ukraine on an individual basis to foreigners and stateless persons . legal representatives of a child separated from the family shall mean one of the parents, adoptive parents, grandfather or grandmother, adult brother or sister . Clause 13, part 1 of Article 1 as revised by Law No. 1251-VII of 13 mai 2014 14) persons in need of temporary protection shall mean foreigners and stateless persons forced to seek protection in Ukraine as a result of external aggression, foreign occupation, civil war, ethnic clashes, natural disasters, man-made disasters or other events which disturb the public order in a certain part or throughout the entire territory of the country of origin refugee certificate shall mean a passport, which identifies its holder and confirms that he/she has been recognised as a refugee in Ukraine . temporary protection is granted in Ukraine to foreigners and stateless persons who arrived in the country en masse and cannot return to the country of permanent residence . Clause 14, part 1 of Article 1 as revised by Law No. 1251-VII of 13 mai 2014 safe third country means a country where a person stayed prior to arrival in Ukraine, except for the cases of transit through the territory of such country . family members of a refugee or person in need of subsidiary or temporary protection: spouse, children under eighteen years old unless they are married and supported by someone . if an international treaty ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine sets rules other than those contained in this Law, rules of that treaty shall apply . refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection or person granted temporary protection cannot be removed or forcibly returned to the country where their life or freedom are endangered . they cannot be returned to countries where they may be subjected to torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment . family members of a person who has been recognised as a refugee and persons in need or subsidiary protection have the right to arrive in Ukraine with the purpose of family reunification . if they cannot provide official documented evidence of a person who intending to be recognised as a refugee in Ukraine or person in need of subsidiary protection crossed the state border of Ukraine . he/she must file an application with a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees within five business days . after explanations are given, officers of the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine authority must transfer the person who applied within 24 hours . if a child separated from the family is crossing or has crossed the state border of Ukraine and applies for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection . officers of the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine must immediately notify a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees . such a person shall not be liable for violating the rules of stay in Ukraine if she/he stays on the territory of Ukraine during the period required for filing an application . a central executive authority may deny acceptance of an application for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection . if the applicant impersonates someone else or had previously been refused to be recognised as refugee . legal representatives of children separated from their families may not be required to file an application . documents for resolving issue of recognising as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection shall be issued based on an application for recognition . such application shall be filed personally by a foreigner or stateless person or by his/her legal representative . information about children under eighteen years old shall be included in the application of one of the minor’s legal representatives . application for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection shall be accompanied by four photographs . central executive authority shall use best efforts to find parents or other legal representatives of a child under eighteen years old . a central executive authority shall issue a certificate to the applicant on application for protection in Ukraine and register the applicant . a decision on recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection shall be made without preliminary consideration of the application . the applicant shall have the right to engage an interpreter at his/her expense or the expense of other legal entities or individuals . a decision to issue or deny issuance of documents for resolving the issue of recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection shall be made on the ground of conclusion drawn up by an employee processing the case . a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in needs of subsidiary or temporary protection shall extend the validity period of the certificate on the application for protection in Ukraine . a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection shall seize the certificate on the application for protection in Ukraine from such a person . the deadline for consideration may be extended by an authorised officer following a reasoned submission of an employee considering the application . interview with a child separated from the family for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection shall be conducted in the presence of his/her legal representative . a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees shall investigate the circumstances which could prevent a person from being recognised . in case of doubts as to the authenticity of the information provided by the applicant, inquiries shall be considered within the period provided for by the legislation . a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection shall refer the person to a medical examination . documents received or prepared during the consideration of an application for recognition as a refugee shall be attached to the applicant’s personal file . at the applicant's written request, consideration of his/her application can be terminated . decisions on an application for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection shall be made by a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees . the deadline for making a decision may be extended, but no longer than up to three months . to ensure confidentiality of information about applicants and protection of their family members who may remain in countries of their origin, the executive authorities shall avoid sending inquiries with the applicants’ personal data to specialised law enforcement authorities (services) of their countries of origin . a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary protection shall decide to recognise a person as a refugee or deny recognition . in case of detecting any mistakes or discrepancies in the information entered into a decision on recognition, the authority shall exchange documents with a written conclusion . a foreigner or stateless person is considered as permanently residing in ukraine . decision sent to authorised officers within three business days after date of decision . a refugee certificate or certificate of a person in need of subsidiary protection shall be issued to each person who has reached sixteen years old . a relevant certificate can be issued and provided to a minor specified in part 12 of this Article, as soon as he/she turns fourteen years old, if the issue of the certificate is needed for exercising his/her right to education, medical treatment, etc. part 9 of Article 10 has been deleted under Law No. 5459-VI of 16 October 2012 a person who has been recognised as a refugee and person in need of subsidiary protection, and who has turned sixteen years old, shall have the right to obtain a document for travelling abroad . a child under 16 years old separated from his/her family and recognised as refugee shall have right to travel abroad for a period until he/she turns sixteen . central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need . of subsidiary or temporary protection shall, until the decision on appeal is made, keep the a person who received the notification of denial of recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection must leave the territory of Ukraine . unless there are other lawful grounds for staying in Ukraine under the Law of Ukraine “On the Legal Status of Foreigners and Stateless Persons” a person shall be deprived of refugee status or subsidiary protection if he/she is engaged in activities posing threat to the national security, public order or health of the population of Ukraine . authorised officers of a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection shall file submission . a decision on cessation or deprivation of the refugee status or subsidiary protection, or on cancelling the decision on recognising a person as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection shall be made by a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees . the deadline for making the decision may be extended, but no longer than up to three months . in case of doubts as to the authenticity of the information provided in the submission, and the need to prove the authenticity and validity of documents a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection shall decide to cease or deprive a person of the refugee status or subsidiary protection . in case of detecting any mistakes or discrepancies in the information entered into decisions on cessation, deprivation or cancelling the decision . the decision shall be sent to the relevant officers of such a centre within three business days the date it is made . a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection shall send a person in whose respect a decision on cessation or deprivation of the refugee status or subsidiary protection was made . a refugee certificate or certificate of a pnp, as well as their travel documents for travelling abroad, shall be seized or invalidated . a person who failed to exercise the right to appeal against a decision on cessation or deprivation of his/her refugee status or subsidiary protection must leave the territory of Ukraine within the set period . decisions to deny acceptance of the application for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection may be appealed against to court . a person whose appeal is under consideration or his/her legal representative shall have the right to legal aid . a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection may appoint an attorney . an attorney for providing legal aid to a child separated from the family or a disabled person shall be appointed following the determined procedure . a person who received a notification on dismissal of the appeal against denial to issue documents for resolving the issue of recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection must leave the territory of Ukraine within the determined period . a central executive authority shall make a respective decision within seven business days after receiving such a decision . the validity period of a certificate on the application for protection in Ukraine shall be extended . a person who applied for refugee status or subsidiary protection must: submit information to a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection . persons recognised as refugees shall enjoy the same rights and freedoms, and incur the same obligations as the nationals of Ukraine . a person recognised as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection shall enjoy the rights to movement, free choice of the place of residence, free departure from the territory of Ukraine . rights in marriage and family relations; financial aid, pension and other types of social security . a person who has been denied the issuance of documents for resolving the issue on recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection may re-apply for the recognition . a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need . of subsidiary or temporary protection . in case of change of the place of residence and moving to the administrative and territorial unit of Ukraine covered by the powers of another central executive . a person in whose respect the decision to deny issuance of documents for resolving the issue of recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection is made, shall enjoy the rights and incur obligations provided for by Article 13 of this Law . if persons from the country bordering Ukraine arrive en masse in the territory of Ukraine due to events specified in clause 14, part 1, Article 1 of this law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall adopt a resolution granting temporary protection to such persons . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall grant temporary protection to persons for the period until the circumstances in their countries of origin have ceased to exist . the period of temporary protection can be extended but no longer than for one year . persons granted temporary protection shall have the right to: free residence at the places suitable for temporary accommodation . temporary protection to foreigners and stateless persons shall be granted at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall make a decision on terminating temporary protection . temporary protection shall be terminated if persons can return to the country of origin . a person may be deprived of temporary protection if he/she commits a crime: against peace, war crime or crime against humanity and humankind, as defined by the international law . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall: 1) determine in a draft State Budget of Ukraine the amounts of financing for the activities in pursuance of this Law . central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection . powers include: 1) making decisions on recognition as a refugee, decisions on the cessation, deprivation of the refugee status and subsidiary protection and on cancelling the decision on recognition . 2) making submissions to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the necessity to make decisions on temporary protection and termination . a central executive authority shall organise the work on acceptance of foreigners and stateless persons of applications for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection . it shall also facilitate the placement of children separated from the family to relevant child care centres or families . the authority shall also determine the places for temporary accommodation of persons who have applied for recognition . a decision on issuing documents for resolving the issue of recognition is made . ukraine is a member of the eu and the u.s. embassy in london is based there . the embassy is recognised as a non-governmental organisation . it provides assistance to persons in need of subsidiary protection, or persons granted temporary protection, in searching for and reunification with their family members . a central executive state border guard authority shall organise the acceptance of applications for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection . the Security Service of Ukraine and its local bodies shall, within their powers, identify persons, from among those who have applied for recognition, who are not recognised . Part 3 of Article 29 as amended by Law No. 5459-VI of 16 October 2012 4. the Ministry of foreign affairs of Ukraine and foreign diplomatic missions of Ukraine shall participate in the preparation of documents and make relevant proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the ministry shall perform general supervision of the enforcement of international treaties on refugee protection ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy on healthcare shall determine the procedure for medical examination of persons in whose respect a decision on issuing documents for resolving the issue of recognition as a refugee is made . child protection services shall be legal representatives of children separated from the families . international co-operation for the purpose of protecting refugees rights . foreigners and stateless persons recognised as refugees by other countries shall enjoy the same rights and freedoms, and incur the same obligations as the nationals of Ukraine, save for the exceptions determined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine . foreigners and stateless persons recognised as refugees by other countries cannot be removed or forcibly returned to countries where they may be subjected to torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment . they can stay in Ukraine on legal grounds and have no valid travel documents for travelling abroad . this Law shall enter into force on the day following the day of its publication . president of Ukraine v. yanukovych city of kyiv 8 july 2011 no. 3671-vi .