a mineral resource base is a set of proven and pre-estimated mineral reserves . 48% of the country's industrial potential and up to 20% of its labour resources are associated with the extraction and use of minerals . the pace and volume of reproduction of its own mineral resource base do not meet the country's needs . the state's economy causes insufficient volumes of geological surveys, prospecting and exploration . there are opportunities for further growth of hydrocarbon reserves, discovery and exploration of deposits of new types of minerals for Ukraine . since 1994, the volume of geological exploration has decreased by 3–4 times . difficult economic situation in Ukraine since independence has been due to lack of cheap energy sources . priority development of new energy technologies based on significant reserves of hard and brown coal . aims to meet the needs of the national economy in mineral resources through its own extraction . reduce Ukraine's dependence on imports of mineral resources and increase the country's export potential . plans to divide raw materials as a component of the mineral resource base of Ukraine into categories . mineral raw materials in the country's economy's current state are not competitive compared to imported raw materials . the problem of developing the mineral resource base of Ukraine as the material basis for the growth of the national economy requires a balanced, systematic approach . challenges are supposed to be solved by: concentration of efforts, including financial resources, on priority areas . Ukraine occupies a prominent place among the CIS countries, Europe, and the world . the volume of annual hydrocarbon extraction consumed in the country has averaged 4 million tons of oil with condensate and 18–20 billion cubic meters of gas . as of 1 January 2010, the total volume of all hydrocarbons' level of initial total resources was about 54 per cent . the Eastern region has sufficient potential to increase oil and gas extraction . in the southern region, only 4.4 per cent of the initial resources were sold . the annual growth of their reserves for up to 2030 is 2 per cent due to the available hydrocarbon resources . the state budget provides for an increase in free gas reserves – 287 billion cubic meters, condensate and oil – 72.5 million tons . coal is the only energy raw material, the reserves of which are potentially sufficient to ensure the state's energy security . the important additional resource potential of hydrocarbons is associated with methane deposits from coal deposits in donetsk and lviv-volyn coal basins . no organisation has ever been engaged in targeted theoretical and practical research on the problems and possibilities of extracting natural gas from shale rocks in Ukraine . in 2010, Ukraine produced more than 202 billion kilowatts of electricity . 47.4 per cent of electricity was produced at nuclear power plants . uranium mineral resource base is assessed as satisfactory . there are 54 iron ore deposits in ukraine, of which 22 are in operation . rich iron ores and ferruginous quartzites are extracted from the deposits of Kryvyi Rih, Kremenchuk and Bilozirka . the world's largest proven reserves (more than 10 billion tons) are distributed among four countries . manganese ores are the world's second largest mineral reserve in the world . the country ranks second after the republic of south africa in terms of proved reserves . u.s. and ukraine are preparing to open new manganee mines in the near future . manganese ores This type of raw material belongs to Category D . chromium demand for which is 300-330 thousand tons per year . the ores of Kapitanivka deposit need further research for industrial concentrations of gold, platinoids and metallic rhenium . aluminium is a non-ferrous and alloying metal that belongs to Category C . problem of meeting the domestic industry needs in its own aluminium raw materials is very urgent . potential internal resources of aluminium-containing raw materials are uncompetitive compared to imported materials . Ukraine's projected copper needs will approach 200 thousand tons in the coming years . there are more than 150 copper ore occurrences on the territory of Ukraine . copper content of classical world deposits of this type is at the level of 3-4 per cent . nickel and cobalt This type of raw material belongs to Category B . the remaining active nickel reserves in the Middle Pobuzhzhia amount to more than 60 thousand tons . there is a fairly high probability of discovering industrial facilities of the west australia type . lead-zinc ores of fairly high quality are known in two regions of Ukraine . the most promising sites are Bihansk complex alunite-barite-polymetallic deposit . within Biliaivka deposit, an ore block with a shallow (up to 500 meters) ore occurrence has been identified . the lack of spatial parameterisation of ore zones of this type remains the main problem . the titanium metallogenic province covers the north-eastern part of the Ukrainian Crystal Shield, the Dnipro-Donets Rift . there are 78 deposits of various levels of study. Of these, 19 are accounted for by the state balance of mineral reserves . shortage of ores with fresh ilmenite, from which it is possible to obtain high-quality and competitive pigments, is a problem . the operation of these deposits will make it possible to simultaneously obtain scarce apatite concentrate and rare earths . tin demand of the economic complex of Ukraine is estimated at 700-800 tons per year . there are small placers of cassiterite in the north-western part of the Ukrainian Crystal Shield . prospects for the discovery of industrial tin deposits are associated with the ore-containing structures of Sushchany-Perzhansk zone . there are ore occurrences of Karier, Zakhidne, hirnyche and others among them . tungsten This type of raw material belongs to Category D. the detection of a new promising tungsten-molybdenum mineralisation significantly increases Ukraine's prospects for discovering its own industrial deposits . rare and rare earth metals Tantalum and niobium are among the most promising ore occurrences in the Ukrainian Crystal Shield . a number of ore deposits in the eastern part of the Ukrainian crystal shield have been discovered in recent years . the resource potential of tantalum and niobium in Ukraine is the highest in Europe . production facilities for the production of finished products are not practically used . large Mazurivka deposit, located in Donetsk oblast, is the most thoroughly studied deposit . Ukraine can fully meet its own needs and meet the needs of the western european market in lithium raw materials . the development of other fields of rare metal pegmatites can lead to the discovery of new promising deposits for development . rare earths or rare earth metals make up a group of 15 lanthanides and yttrium . ukraine has industrial facilities and technologies to produce high-purity metals . the development of its own mineral resource base of rare-earth metals is urgently needed . zirconium and hafnium have similar physical and chemical properties . zircons are found in fluorite-rare earth ores of Yastrebets deposit and at the beryllium perzhansk deposit in the north-eastern part of the Ukrainian Crystal Shield . the consumption of zirkonium and its compounds in Ukraine is about 90 tons per year . scandium is one of the leaders in the european subcontinent in terms of scandium resources . the state balance of mineral reserves considers scandium reserves as a concomitant component in four complex deposits . scandium ores with admixtures of vanadium and rare earths are being prepared for operation at Zhovtorichynsk deposit . rhenium is a scarce, scattered element with the smallest Clarke (7x10-8) of all platinoids and lanthanides . radio electronics, electronic-vacuum industry, oil refining (production of high-octane gasoline) aircraft construction (significant increase in engine life), instrument engineering, thermocouples . the gold content of the donets basin has been studied for a long time, but due to the lack of thorough research, there is no unambiguous assessment . the main gold-bearing province of Ukraine is the Ukrainian Crystal Shield, the total forecast resources are 2 thousand 400 tons of gold . search and evaluation works continue on the Ukrainian Crystal Shield . new discoveries include ore occurrences of andriivskyi, sorokyne, Popelnaste, Zelenodolsk, Vilnyi Khutir, Haichyr, Kvitka, orikhove, Kapustiany, pivdennopolianytskyi . geological and economic assessment of the forecast resources of identified gold deposits . platinum group metals resources associated with ore formations of native copper in the traprocks of the Volyn and sulfide copper-nickel ores in the base-ultrabasite massifs . diamonds are the most valuable precious metals in the world . three areas of kimberlite and lamproite magmatism have been established in the territory of Ukraine . the prospects for detecting industrial diamonds in the complex of geological and geophysical data and other areas are real . diamonds and their satellite minerals have been found in secondary reservoirs of different ages . there are significant deposits of fluorspar in the eastern part of the Ukrainian Crystal Shield, on its south-western and northern slopes . the Bakhtyn deposit in the Prydnistrovia with reserves amounted to 18 million tons and pokrovsk-Kyriivka in the pryazovia region . a fluorite deposit in apatite – Stremyhorod and Novopoltavka – has been explored and prepared large deposits of high-quality flux limestones in the Crimean and donetsk folded structures and the Indole-Kuban trough have been explored in Ukraine . the lack of proven reserves of tarred dolomites remains the problem of the raw material base . there are seven dolomite deposits on the state balance sheet of which four are being developed . bentonite deposits are found in the Transcarpathian, Cherkasy, Ternopil, Khmelnytskyi oblasts . most of the known deposits are not of industrial significance due to insignificant reserves . refractory raw materials This type of raw material belongs to category D . ensuring an increase in industrial reserves at Volodymyrivka deposit of secondary kaolins and Polohy deposit of refractory clays . today, Ukraine almost does not have its own mining raw material base of magnesite . serpentinites are primarily high-quality magnesium ores for the extraction of metallic magnesium (MgO – 97–98.8 per cent) in metallurgy, a significant part of magnesite is processed into forsterite refractories . the raw materials for which are imported are replaced with their own . high-alumina raw materials will be used to produce iron ore pellets from talc-magnesites . disten-sillimanite is a concomitant component in the reserves of titanium-zirconium deposits . promising areas for identifying deposits of this raw material are the Pryazovia region and the northern part of Zhytomyr oblast . presently, Ukraine's annual demand for the raw material is 400 thousand tons . current demand of economic sectors for phosphorus raw materials is estimated at 2.3–2.8 million tons per year . the possibility of importing Kola apatite concentrate is sharply reduced due to developing the main reserves for open production . deposits of granular phosphorites have been discovered in Ukraine . in recent years, the volume of mineral fertilizers in agriculture in Ukraine has decreased by 4 times . it is offered to implement a method for obtaining phosphorous mineral fertilizer . this approach makes it possible to start the industrial development of numerous small phosphorite deposits . the main volume of sulfur was extracted by open-pit mining . transition to more progressive method of underground sulfur smelting has led to a sharp reduction in sulfur production . today, Yazivske deposit is the only relatively profitable source of sulfur production in Ukraine . natural coloured stones can be one of the most profitable budget-filling minerals . the sale of ready-made, highly artistic amber products can become a reliable source of replenishment of the state treasury with funds . primary kaolins and flasks are the main raw materials used in the production of the new products . kaolins are distributed mainly on the Ukrainian Crystal Shield . strong and chemically pure carbonate rocks with a CaCO3 content of at least 93% are used for technological support of the sugar industry . in Ukraine, deposits of quartz-glauconite sands of Neogene and Cretaceous age are widely distributed on the territory of the Volyn-Podillia Plate, the Ukrainian Crystal Shield and in the south-eastern part of the Dnipro-Donets Rift . the presence of its own raw material base of barium sulphate ores has become particularly relevant in recent years due to the depletion of reserves . it is planned to conduct prospecting operations on the flanks of Bihansk deposit to identify additional ore deposits to create its own raw material base . granite deposits are the most promising. their use will make it possible to organise production in a short time and with the lowest financial costs . quartzites and quartz sand are used for the production of metallurgy and glass production . feldspar rocks of the archean-proterozoic are widely developed within the Ukrainian Crystal Shield . deposits developed in Ukraine supply low-quality raw materials . a searching assessment of graphite reserves and resources in promising areas is planned . industrial waste is generated in the form of overburden, flotation and gravity tails, phosphogypsum, defecate . the annual volume of solid waste in Ukraine is only 0.6 billion cubic meters . geological mapping of the territory makes it possible to assess prospects for developing the raw material base . about 75 per cent of the territory of Ukraine is covered by the works related to the creation of State Geological Map-200 . geological content maps are issued on a scale of 1:50000 or larger in the European Union countries . the main volumes of geological forecast mapping will be performed during the implementation of the second stage of the Programme . geological mapping works are carried out comprehensively with the necessary volumes of geophysical, geochemical, aerospace, laboratory-analytical and other studies . the main result of regional geological, hydrogeological, ecological and geological studies is maps of various scales of general and targeted content . the share of underground water in the domestic drinking water supply of the population of Ukraine is only about 30 per cent . the explored underground water deposits of Ukraine are developed only by 20–25 per cent. the problems of providing high-quality drinking water to the southern and eastern regions of the state remain relevant. the upper part of the rocks of the Earth's crust on 80 per cent of the territory of Ukraine is disturbed by mining, industrial and urban development, land reclamation, hydraulic engineering construction . negative consequences of the closure of mining enterprises, mines and open-pit mines significantly complicated the ecological and geological problems of many regions . geological and exploration work on the continental shelf and within the exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine . shelf zones and continental slopes are highly promising for many types of mineral raw materials, including oil and gas . as a maritime power, ukraine conducts various geological surveys in the water area within its exclusive economic zone . the government of Ukraine has submitted an official application for its intention to join the interoceanmetal joint organization . it is planned to carry out these works at the expense of non-state investments . after drilling is completed, all deep and ultra-deep wells are supposed to be converted into monitoring geological laboratories (landfills or geophysical observatories) geophysical research on earthquake forecasting The environmental seismic situation in the regions with a large number of mineral deposits and forecast resources of mineral raw materials, particularly hydrocarbons, concentrated on the black and azov seas shelf, requires proper consideration and assessment of risks associated with seismic phenomena . the main task of this laboratory is to register and collect data on variations of different fields in the well in the range of 2800–5300 meters and around . geophysical and geochemical methods include seismological studies, gravimetric field studies, magnetic observations, etc. regional geophysical studies are planned to be conducted on land and in the black sea and the sea of azov . the programme provides for the allocation of funds for technical re-equipment of the industry in the amount of up to 30 per cent of the costs of geological exploration . Regulatory support The implementation of the Programme requires improvement of regulatory legal acts . scientific support for the Programme is provided: scientific support of geological exploration . technical support is provided for work on hydrogeological, engineering-geological and ecological mapping . the Programme is designed for the period up to 2030 and will be implemented in three stages . the first stage covers 2011–2012; the second covers 2013–2020; and the third covers 2021–2030 . it is planned to create favourable conditions for attracting domestic and foreign investments to finance the geological study of subsurface resources. state service of geology and mineral resources of Ukraine will carry out activities within the framework of the intergovernmental council of the CIS countries . development of bilateral co-operation with other countries will contribute to the economic and integrated use of mineral resources . expected results of the Programme implementation are: discovery and exploration of new deposits of fuel and energy raw materials . the Programme's activities are implemented by the State Service of Geology and Mineral Resources of Ukraine . the total funding of the Programme is assumed to amount to UAH 1,890,53.99 million . projected volumes and sources of financing include state budget funds and other sources . state budget 26,119.13 1,730.42 8,952.04 15,436.67 Other sources 162,934.86 10,689.7 55,882.62 96,362.54 total 189,053.99 12,420.12 64,834.66 111,799.21 annexe 2 to the programme TASKS AND MEASURES of implementation of the programme . the uk must achieve a sustainable future for britain . be 80% below 1990s levels by 2050 . more than $1 trillion on energy . the u.s. is one of the world's largest emitters of carbon dioxide . meet the needs of population and meets growing demand . annex 3 to the Programme EXPECTED RESULTS of the . nationwide mineral resources base development programme of . Ukraine for the period until the year 2030 .