this Law shall define the legal basis for the activities in the field of culture . it shall regulate public relations associated with the creation, use, distribution, preservation of cultural heritage and cultural values . a "basic network of cultural institutions" is a complex of state and communal cultural enterprises . 'cultural space of Ukraine' is the field to carry out cultural activities and meet cultural, information and leisure needs of citizens . 'artistic amateurism' is non-professional creative activities of individuals or groups that are not aimed at generating income . "cultural and artistic project" is a form of cultural activity with a specific goal and implementation deadline . a national cultural state target programme is a programme aimed at creating favourable conditions for national cultural development, preserving national cultural heritage, meeting intellectual and spiritual human needs . “cultural objects” is integral property complexes of clubs institutions (clubs, cultural centres, etc.), libraries, museums, archives of historical and cultural reserves, theatres, other cultural institutions . the legislation of Ukraine on culture on export, import and return of cultural values . the legislation of Ukraine on culture shall consist of the Constitution of Ukraine, this Law and other laws regulating activities in the field of culture . the main principles of the state cultural policy shall include: ensuring the implementation and advocacy of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens . art, aesthetic education, special cultural and artistic education, extra-curricular education in educational institutions of culture are regulated by this Law . culture is one of the main factors of the identity of the Ukrainian people . protection and preservation of cultural heritage as fundamentals of national culture . ensuring creative freedom, protection of intellectual property rights, copyright and related rights; ensuring the rights of citizens in the field of culture. action programme of the central executive authority shaping the state policy in the fields of culture and arts for the development of culture for the corresponding year . the state shall create conditions for development of the culture of the Ukrainian people, indigenous peoples, and national minorities of Ukraine . citizens shall have the right to freedom of creativity, free choice of activities in the field of culture . the right of a person to implement creative activity can be exercised both on a professional and amateur basis . right to access to cultural values and cultural goods shall be implemented by maintaining cultural institutions . legal entities and individuals have the right to establish cultural institutions . cultural institutions may be established by central executive authorities, Crimean authorities . citizens of all nationalities have right to preserve, develop, and promote culture . the main types of activities in the field of culture shall include the following: creation, performance, duplication, dissemination, demonstration (public display and public announcement) cultural research, literary and art criticism, film criticism; organisation of leisure and recreational activities for citizens . the executive authorities and local authority shall take account of the need to create a common cultural space in Ukraine . the Ukrainian Cultural Foundation shall support domestic producers in the field of culture . financial support for socially important cultural events shall be provided by the central executive authority shaping the state policy in the fields of culture and arts . the preservation of cultural heritage, cultural values, and cultural goods . the removal of printed publications, source materials of films and phonograms shall be prohibited . unique cultural values of exceptional historical, artistic, scientific, and other cultural implication for the formation of the national cultural space shall be recognised as objects of national cultural property . the documents on cultural heritage objects and information on cultural values shall be preserved by means of establishing an insurance fund . cultural institutions of various organisational and legal forms of management and ownership shall be established and perform activities in accordance with the legislation . funds received from privatisation of state-owned cultural objects shall be credited in full to the State Budget of Ukraine, and those of communal ownership to the respective local budgets . cultural institutions (theatres, philharmonic societies, libraries, museums, archives, art galleries (exhibitions), cinemas, art schools, leisure centres for children and young people, clubhouses, etc.) shall not be evicted without providing them with other equivalent premises . the right to appoint, conclude a contract with heads of cultural institutions on the temporarily occupied territories shall be granted to: 1) Donetsk and Luhansk oblast state administrations, respective civil-mili the head of a state or communal cultural institution may be appointed as part-time head . the contract shall set out basic requirements for the head's activity . formation of the artistic staff shall be carried out on a competitive basis . a person having higher education, at least three years of work experience in the field of culture, speaking the state language may be the head of a state or communal cultural institution . head of national cultural institution must be capable of performing job duties in terms of competencies and moral qualities, educational and professional level . the governing body shall announce a competition for the position of head of a state or communal cultural institution . announcement of the competition shall be published in the official print media of the relevant government and local authorities . competition committee shall consist of nine members . non-governmental cultural organisations of the respective functional area shall submit three candidates each to the governing body that determines three candidates for the competition committee by lots . competition committee shall be deemed competent if at least six members are approved . all interested persons may take part in the competition for the position of head of state or communal cultural institution . CV containing full name, date, month, year and place of birth, information on citizenship, education, work activity, position (occupation), place of work, social work (including in elected positions) documents shall be sent to the postal and e-mail addresses of the governing body within the period prescribed by this part . the selection of candidates for the position of head of a state or communal cultural institution shall be conducted publicly . a person shall not be allowed to participate in the selection of candidates if he/she does not meet the requirements specified in Article 21-1 of this Law . the governing body shall be obliged to publish on its official website the terms and conditions of employment . work experience in senior positions in Ukrainian/international companies, institutions, programmes, projects in the field of culture . if all candidates are rejected by the competition committee, it shall hold repeated competition . the contract with the head of a cultural institution shall determine the basic requirements . existing cultural institutions and educational institutions in the field of culture shall be automatically included in the basic network . executive and local authorities shall be guided by state social norms in the field of services by cultural institutions . cultural institutions may be excluded from the basic network only in agreement with the central executive authority shaping the state policy in the fields of culture and arts . the procedure for granting national and academic status to cultural institutions shall be determined by legislation . granting the status of a national institution to cultural institutions (establishments) and academic institution to professional creative groups . the fee for the output of paid services shall be set annually by the state and communal cultural institution in the national currency of Ukraine . Depending on the form of ownership, cultural institutions of the national and local basic network shall be maintained or financially supported . the State shall create a favourable tax regime for individuals and legal entities allocating their funds for the development of culture . remuneration of cultural workers shall consist of an official salary (tariff rate), an allowance for an honourary title, academic degree, seniority depending on the length of work in state and communal cultural institutions . cultural workers and pedagogical workers of educational institutions in the field of culture shall be entitled to health improvement allowance during annual leave . the State shall ensure the appointment and payment of pensions to cultural workers in accordance with the legislation . public organisations shall have the right to establish charitable organisations independently and on a contractual basis . section VIII INTERNATIONAL CULTURAL RELATIONS Article 33. State promotion of international cultural exchange . section 34. Development of national culture outside Ukraine . persons guilty of violating the legislation on culture shall bear disciplinary, civil, administrative, and criminal liability . Paragraphs 2 and 4 of Article 1 of the Law of Ukraine “On professional creative workers and creative unions” shall be amended to read as follows: “‘a professional creative worker’ is a person who is professionally engaged in a creative activity resulting in the creation or interpretation of works in the field of culture and art”; “‘creative activity’ is an individual or collective creativity that results in the production of works of cultural value”