the Budget Code of Ukraine defines the legal basis for the functioning of the budget system of Ukraine . it regulates relations arising in the process of preparation, consideration, approval, execution of budgets, reporting on their implementation . budgets of local self-government are those of rural, settlement, city territorial communities, as well as districts in cities . budget purpose is the authority of the key spending unit, provided by this Code . budget request is a document containing proposals with justification for budget funds . debt obligation is the borrower's obligation to the lender on the loan (credit) budget deficit is the excess of budget expenditures over its revenues . guarantee obligation is the guarantor's obligation to fully or partially fulfil the debt obligations of the business entity – resident of Ukraine to the creditor . key spending units are budget institutions represented by their heads . budget revenues are tax, non-tax and other revenues on a non-refundable basis . the term "single account" is used in this code in the sense given in the Tax Code of Ukraine . quasi-fiscal operations are operations of public authorities and local governments . budget lending means operations to provide funds from the budget on terms of return, payment and maturity . inter-budget transfers means funds transferred free of charge and irrevocably from one budget to another . local debt means total amount of debt obligations of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional, district budgets and budgets of local self-government . budget funds recipient is a business entity, public or other institution that does not have the status of a budgetary institution . passport of the budget programme defines the purpose, objectives, directions of use for budget funds, responsible executors, performance indicators . budget surplus is the excess of budget revenues over its expenditures . a decision on the local budget is a regulatory legal act of the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or the relevant local council . medium-term commitment in the field of health care means the obligation of the central executive body ensuring the formation and implementation of state policy . subventions means intergovernmental transfers for use for a specific purpose in the manner prescribed by the body decided to grant the subvention; temporary free funds of the single treasury account and foreign currency budget accounts . used to cover temporary cash gaps in local budgets, the general fund of the state budget and the Pension Fund of Ukraine . fiscal risks means factors (including contingent liabilities and quasi-fiscal operations) which may lead to a decrease in budget revenues . the budget period for all budgets making up the budget system of Ukraine is one calendar year, which begins on January 1 of each year and ends on December 31 of the same year . special circumstances under which the State Budget of Ukraine may be approved for a budget period other than provided for in part 1 of this Article include: martial law; 2) declaration of a state of emergency in Ukraine . if an international treaty of Ukraine is submitted for ratification, drafts of new laws of Ukraine regulating budget relations are submitted for consideration to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine together with the draft law On Ratification . amendments to this Code may be made only by laws amending the Budget Code . the unity of the budget system of Ukraine is ensured by a single legal framework . the state funds from the state budget are not responsible for the budgetary obligations of the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local governments . budget classification is used for drawing up and execution of the state and local budgets . budget revenues are classified into sections: 1) tax revenues; 2) non-tax revenues; 3) income from capital transactions; 4) transfers . tax revenues are recognised as established by the laws of Ukraine on taxation national taxes and fees . transfers means funds received from other state authorities, authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local governments, other states or international organisations on a gratuitous and non-refundable basis . Expenditures and budget lending are classified according to: 1) budget programmes; 2) a sign of the key spending unit . budget expenditures are classified according to the economic characteristics of operations carried out during their implementation . debt repayment costs are part of budget financing . the budget may consist of general and special funds . own receipts of budget institutions are received in addition to the funds of the general budget fund and are included in the special budget fund . the first group includes revenues from fees for services provided by budgetary institutions in accordance with the law; the second group includes receipts from other sources . subgroup 3 – revenues received by state and municipal institutions of professional higher and higher education, research institutions and cultural institutions . own receipts of budget institutions are used (subject to part nine of Article 51 of this Code) for covering the costs associated with the services arrangement and provision provided by budgetary institutions in accordance with their main activities . transfer of funds between general and special budget funds is allowed only within budget allocations by amending the law on the State Budget of Ukraine . payments from the special budget fund shall be made within the funds actually received by this fund for the relevant purpose . the opening of extra-budgetary accounts for the allocation of budget funds is prohibited . budget approval with a deficit is allowed in the presence of reasonable sources of budget funding . the budget surplus shall be approved for the purpose of repaying the debt . the current remaining budget balance is set at no more than 2 per cent of the planned expenditures of the general fund of the budget . sources of budget funding are funds from state (local) internal and external borrowings . public debt and state-guaranteed debt are managed by the central executive body implementing the state budget policy . activities of the Debt Agency of Ukraine are directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . state borrowings shall be made within the limits set by the law on the State budget of Ukraine, subject to the maximum amount of public debt at the end of the budget period. state internal and external borrowings belong to the state in the person of the Head of the Debt Agency of Ukraine or a person performing his/her duties . in the event of a decrease in the amount of funds from state internal (external) borrowings compared to the amount specified by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine, it is allowed to reduce (increase) the number of state borrowings. local external borrowings by obtaining credits (loans) from international financial organisations can be carried out by the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea . the right to make local borrowings within the limits determined by the decision on the local budget belongs to the autonomous republic of crimea, regional councils, city councils . if the expected amount of expenditures for servicing and repayment of public debt exceeds the amount specified in the law on the State Budget of Ukraine for this purpose, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine shall immediately inform the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Accounting Chamber . the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional or city council shall make appropriate changes to the decision on local budget . the Head of the Debt Agency of Ukraine has the right to place temporarily free funds of the single treasury account and foreign currency accounts of the state budget on deposits . the head of the local financial body may also purchase securities issued by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the relevant city council . conditions for issue and circulation of government debt securities are defined taking into account the Law of Ukraine "About securities and the stock market" Temporarily, from the date of entry into force of Law No. 553-IX of 13 April 2020 until 1 January 2021, the provisions of part ten, Article 16 shall not apply . strategy of public debt management for the medium term is formed taking into account the indicators defined by the Budget Declaration and the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine . 80% of the total amount of such debt obligations on the loan portfolio and 80% – on each individual loan shall be provided by state guarantees on a portfolio basis . local guarantees are provided on terms of payment, maturity, as well as ensuring the fulfilment of obligations in the manner prescribed by law . a mandatory condition for providing a state (local) guarantee is the conclusion of an agreement between the Debt Agency of Ukraine (relevant local financial authority) and the business entity . penalty is accrued for each day of delay in payment of debt in national currency at the rate of 120 per cent of the annual discount rate of the National Bank of Ukraine at the day of penalty . state guarantees are not provided if the direct source of repayment of loans (loans) provides funds from the state (local) budget . the amount and type of property security of economic entities in charge of state (municipal) property shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the limitations does not apply to claims for such debt repayment of an economic entity to the state (Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional council or city territorial community) in the event of a bankruptcy case of an economic entity, all scheduled payments to repay the loan at the time of the case initiation are considered overdue . in the case of providing a state (local) guarantee to ensure partial debt obligations fulfilment of economic entities, the tax authorities collect the entire amount of over due debt on such a credit (loan) debts of business entities to the state (Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional council or city territorial community) or under state (local) guarantors is prohibited . the amount of interest accrued as a result of default by the borrower on the restructured amount of debt is written off . maximum amount of public debt and state-guaranteed debt at the end of the budget period may not exceed 60 per cent of the annual nominal volume of gross domestic product of Ukraine . the total amount of local debt and debt guaranteed by the autonomous republic of crimea may not exceed 200 per cent (400 per cent for the city of Kyiv) of the average annual forecast revenue of the development budget . the Debt Agency of Ukraine shall maintain the Register of State debt and state-guaranteed debt . in case of expected exceeding of this limit value, the local financial body shall immediately apply to the Verkhovna Rada . article 20. Application of the programme-target method in the budget process . budget programmes are formed by the main managers of budget funds . list of performance indicators for each budget programme is developed . effective indicators of the budget programme shall be confirmed by official state statistics, financial and other reporting, data of accounting, statistical and internal economic (management) accounting . evaluation of the effectiveness of budget programmes is based on monitoring data, analysis of performance indicators for budget programmes . the main managers of state budget funds develop draft procedures for the use of budget funds . the key spending unit shall develop and approve the budget programme passport . rules of creation of passports of budget programmes and reports on their execution are established by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall conduct reviews of state budget expenditures . reviews provide analysis of the effectiveness of public policy in the relevant field of activity at the expense of the state budget . budget managers are divided into key spending units and lower-level budget managers . key spending units of the State Budget of Ukraine shall be determined in accordance with clause 1 of part two of this Article and approved by the law on the state budget of Ukraine by establishing their budget allocations . the chief administrator of budget funds: 1) develops a plan of activities for the medium term (including measures for the investment projects implementation) budget funds recipient uses funds in accordance with the requirements of budget legislation . the manager of budget funds may authorise the recipient to implement the measures provided for in the budget programme . managers of budget funds, in which operational management or economic management are the objects in respect of which the purchase of energy service . energy service agreement approved by the central executive body implementing state policy in the field of efficient use of fuel and energy resources . budget commitments and payments from the budget shall be made only in the presence of the relevant budget purpose . budget allocations for national expenditures and lending (except for intergovernmental transfers) increase expenditures on budget programmes related to the functioning of public authorities, labour costs of employees of budgetary institutions may be provided . the budgetary authority to perform functions, tasks or provide services for which the budget is assigned, is transferred in accordance with the law . redistribution of budget expenditures and provision of budget loans under budget programmes are carried out by the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . changes in the amount, purpose and time constraints of budget allocations, except as provided by this Code, shall be made only in the presence of the relevant provision in the law on the state budget of Ukraine (decision on the local budget) 12. All budget assignments shall cease to be valid after the end of the budget period . the specified amount of expenditures is determined based on prices (tariffs) expected in the budget period for which budget assignments are set . budget manager redistributes budget allocations to increase expenditures for utilities and energy by reducing energy expenditures by the amount of the difference between the actual and planned reduction of these costs . budget allocations in the case provided for in this part of the article are carried out by the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . expenditures on medium-term obligations in the field of health care are separately determined by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine at the level of the relevant indicators of the Budget Declaration approved in the previous and/or current budget period . reserve budget is formed for the implementation of contingencies which are not permanent and could not be foreseen during the draft budget . the reserve budget may not exceed one per cent of the expenditures in the general fund of the relevant budget. the state fund for regional development is created as a part of the state budget. funds of the state fund for regional development are directed to the implementation of investment programmes and regional development projects aimed at regional development . at least 10 per cent of the funds are provided for the implementation projects aiming at the development of regions in terms of sports infrastructure . the central executive body ensuring the formation of state regional policy forms a commission for evaluation and selection of programmes and projects . the central executive body ensuring the formation of state regional policy submits a proposal for the distribution of funds of the state fund of regional development . programmes and projects implemented at the expense of the fund are subject to co-financing from local budgets in the amount of not less than 10 per cent . the state road fund is created as a part of special fund of state budget . the state road fund is formed from the sources specified in paragraph 1, part two of this Article . funds are distributed as follows: 60 per cent – in the direction specified in the paragraph 1 of part three of this article . a subvention from the state budget to local budgets, at least 5% – for construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of artificial structures. the State Fund for Radioactive Waste Management is created as a part of the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine . the procedure for using the funds of the state fund for radioactive waste management shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. the Treasury of Ukraine indisputably writes off funds from the state budget and local budgets based on the court decision . Article 26. Control over compliance with budget legislation is aimed at ensuring effective and efficient management of budget funds . internal control is a set of measures applied by the head to ensure compliance with the law and efficiency of budget funds . internal audit is an activity aimed at improving the management system, internal control . each draft law submitted to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within five days . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall submit an expert opinion prepared by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to the Committee of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on Budget within two weeks from the date of receipt of the draft law . the expert opinion shall contain information on the completeness and reliability of the data set out in the financial and economic justification . monthly, quarterly and annual reports on the execution of the State Budget of Ukraine are posted on the official website of the Treasury of Ukraine . draft law on the state budget of Ukraine shall be subject to obligatory publication in the newspaper "Governmental Courier" main managers of local budgets post budget requests on their official websites or publish them in another way . the decision on the local budget shall be published no later than ten days from the date of its adoption in the newspapers designated by the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea . local state administrations, executive bodies of relevant local councils shall ensure publication on their official websites . information on the execution of the State Budget of Ukraine and local budgets shall be subject to mandatory publication . main spending units provide public information on the implementation of budget programmes . main managers of budget funds are published by posting on their official websites . the conditions and procedure for ensuring access to public information are determined by the Law of Ukraine . revenues of the State Budget of Ukraine include budget revenues, except for those in accordance with Articles 64, 64-1, 66, 69-1 та 71 of this Code are assigned to local budgets . personal income tax is paid (transferred) in the amount of 25 per cent in the relevant territory of Ukraine (except in Kyiv and Sevastopol) 45 per cent of the rent for the special use of water; 70 per cent rent for use of subsoil for the extraction of minerals of national importance 95 per cent of rent for the use of subsoil for the extraction of oil, natural gas and gas condensate is included in the general fund of the state budget in full . other taxes include: excise tax on excisable goods (products) produced in Ukraine, import duty, rent for transportation of oil and oil products by main oil pipelines . payments related to the stay of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation on the territory of Ukraine . funds from sanctions (fines, penalties, etc.) applied in accordance with the law . payments for the provision of administrative services . fees for state registration of legal entities, natural persons – entrepreneurs and public formations . fees for preparation of copyright and agreements relating to the author's rights . income from rent for the use of the entire property complex and other state property . single fee, collected at checkpoints across the state border of Ukraine . port (administrative) fee; 38) payment for the performance of customs formalities by the customs authorities outside the location or outside the working hours established for them . funds from the sale of surplus space equipment for military and dual purposes . deductions from the amount of funds spent on advertising of tobacco products . fees for compulsory state pension insurance, paid when submitting jewelry and household products made of precious metals for branding with a state test mark . 80 per cent of funds received by enterprises, institutions and organisations maintained at the expense of the state budget for gold, platinum, platinum group metals, precious stones . excise tax on fuel and vehicles produced in Ukraine, import duty for petroleum products and vehicles and tires for them . 80 per cent of revenues to the State Specialised Fund for Financing National Expenditures on aviation activities . environmental tax levied for the formation of radioactive waste . funds received in accordance with Article 8 of the Law of Ukraine "On streamlining issues related to nuclear safety" funds from sale of surplus weapons, military and special equipment, military real estate . cinematographers who received subsidies from the state for the creation (production) of films . 50 per cent of the proceeds from the rental and/or transfer of rights to use the film . other revenues specified by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine . the law on the State Budget of Ukraine may refer to the relevant budget period certain types of revenues of the general (special) fund of the state budget of Ukraine or part thereof . the sources of formation for the general fund are receipts as a result of recovery of overdue debt to the state on credits (loans) attracted by the state or under state guarantees . implementing investment projects, including by lending or providing transfers, at the expense of sources specified in clause 1, part three, Article 15 of this Code . ensuring the administration of justice and the functioning of judicial authorities . maintaining material values of the state material reserve . state preferential lending to individual rural developers for construction (reconstruction) and purchase of housing . implementation of programmes and measures specified by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine . expenses related to the organisation and conduct of enforcement actions, payment of remuneration to state executors . the state budget of Ukraine shall contain an explanation of all expenditures . reports on secret expenditures shall be preliminarily considered by the Verkhovna Rada Committee on Budget . the budget declaration and the draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine are drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine manages fiscal risks by identifying, assessing, monitoring and developing measures to minimise them . organisational and methodological principles of financial risk assessment are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . information on fiscal risks is published on the official website . the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine annually draws up the Budget Declaration . it defines the principles of budget policy and indicators of the state budget for the medium term . the indicators may differ from the indicators determined for the relevant budget periods . the National Bank of Ukraine shall submit to the President of Ukraine, the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the central body of executive power ensures the formation of state policy in the field of economic and social development . by March 1 of the year preceding the planned year, the High Council of justice shall submit proposals on the priority tasks of financial support of the judiciary . instructions for preparing proposals for the Budget Declaration may introduce additional financial restrictions, organisational and other requirements . the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine analyzes the proposals submitted by the main managers of the state budget for compliance with the provided indicative limits of state budget expenditures . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall submit the budget declaration . financial and economic justification shall include calculations and explanations . the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine considers the Budget Declaration according to a special procedure . state capital investments for the development and implementation of state investment projects for the medium term are determined by the Budget Declaration . the amount of state capital investment is determined within the general limits of state budget expenditures and the provision of loans from the state budget. the Interdepartmental Commission on State Investment Projects is a collegial body, whose provisions and composition are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . within the volume of state capital investments for the planned budget period not less than 70 per cent will be directed to the continuation (completion) of state investment projects . key spending units shall ensure timeliness, reliability and content of budget requests . if the budget request foresees the provision of state aid, attach a copy of the decision of the Authorised Body on State Aid . the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine analyzes budget requests for compliance with the Budget Declaration . the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine shall submit a draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . if no agreement is reached, the ministry shall attach its opinion on uncoordinated issues to the said project . the draft law shall include information on the economic situation of the state and the main forecast macro indicators of economic and social development . a draft law on the state budget of ukraine is due to be adopted on october 1 . it includes information on indicators on revenues, financing, expenditures and lending . a list of benefits from taxes and fees with the calculation for losses of budget revenues from their provision . a list of public investment projects indicating the total cost of each project . a plan of state borrowings for the next budget period should also be submitted . the information should indicate creditors, types, purpose, name of currency, term and interest rate . consideration and approval of the State Budget of Ukraine shall take place in the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine according to a special procedure determined by the Rules of Procedure . the Cabinet of Ministers shall submit justifications and calculations on budget indicators of such law, changed compared to consideration in the first reading . if the president of Ukraine returns the law on the State Budget of Ukraine to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine for reconsideration, the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall within a week submit to it changes to the indicators specified in the text . the law determines the maximum amount of the annual deficit (surplus) of the state budget in the official budget period . if the law on the State Budget of Ukraine has not entered into force before the beginning of the new budget period, the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to carry out expenditures . expenditures of the state budget may be made only on budget programmes, budget allocations for which are established by the law for the previous budget period . state borrowings may be made in an amount not exceeding the amount of expenditures for repayment of public debt in the relevant period . social standards and social guarantees, including the subsistence level, the minimum wage, benefits, compensations and guarantees to the population, are applied . the Treasury of Ukraine provides treasury servicing of budget funds . the Treasury of Ukraine has the right to raise funds on a revolving basis of a single treasury account to cover temporary cash gaps in local budgets, the Pension Fund of Ukraine . budget institutions open accounts in the bodies that provide tree servicing of budget funds in the manner prescribed by law . the procedure for conducting such operations shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . own revenues of state and municipal institutions of professional higher and higher education, research institutions and cultural institutions are credited to special registration accounts . settlement and cash servicing of own revenues is carried out in the territorial body of the Treasury of Ukraine or in public sector banks . the Treasury of Ukraine shall keep accounting records of all revenues of the state budget of Ukraine . the transfer between the types of revenues and budgets of funds erroneously and/or excessively credited to the budget . taxes and fees and other revenues of state budget shall be credited directly to the single treasury account . it is prohibited to make settlements with the budget in non-monetary form . part of the profit to be distributed to the National Bank of Ukraine is determined and transferred to the State Budget of Ukraine after confirmation by the external audit . procedure for drawing up, reviewing, approving and basic requirements for the implementation of estimates of budgetary institutions . budget managers shall make budget commitments and make payments only within the limits of the budget allocations established by the estimates . medium-term commitments in the field of health care acquire the status of a budgetary commitment in the amount determined in accordance with the terms of the agreement (contract) accounts payable of budget managers for medium-term liabilities under contracts for construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of roads at the end of the current budget period may not exceed the balance of the special fund of the state budget . budget managers have the right to take appropriate budget commitments under budget programmes . the procedure for registration and accounting of budget commitments of budget managers shall be determined by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine . the manager of budget funds after receiving goods, works and services decides on their payment . in the case of loans from the budget, borrowers have debts to the budget. Expenses for gratuitous or preferential material and household provision are carried out at the expense of budget allocations these budgetary institutions . budget managers shall ensure full payment for electricity and heat, water supply, sewerage, natural gas, other energy, utilities and communication services . family members of the beneficiary include wife (husband), their minor children (under 18 years of age); unmarried adult children recognised as persons with disabilities from a childhood of groups I and II . if the actual amount of own revenues of budget institutions is less than the planned indicators taken into account in the special fund of its budget, the manager of budget funds is obliged to make changes . if there is no such debt, the manager of budget funds allocates 50 per cent of the funds for activities carried out at the expense of the relevant revenues . in the case of the formation of state bodies in the current budget period, the provision of their activities in this period is carried out within the expenditures provided by state bodies, which are liquidated or reorganised . amendments to the law on the State Budget of Ukraine may be made only by the laws . a draft law may be considered by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine in the presence of an expert opinion of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine . draft law on amendments to the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine may be considered by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine only in the presence of an expert opinion of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine . the fact of over fulfilment of general budget revenues is recognised based on the official conclusions of the Accounting Chamber and the ministry of finance . Article 55. Reduction of expenditures and crediting of the general fund of the state budget . if the results of the monthly report on the implementation of the general fund of the State Budget of Ukraine show that the received state budget revenues are insufficient to implement budget allocations . the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine prepares proposals for amendments to the state budget of Ukraine . accounting for the execution of the state budget of Ukraine shall be carried out by the bodies of the Treasury of Ukraine in accordance with the procedure established by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine . all budget revenues and budget expenditures shall be accounted for in gross indicators, regardless of whether or not the budget allocations provide for the offsetting of these indicators . the Treasury of Ukraine shall close all accounts opened in the current budget period . balances of state budget funds at the end of the budget period are kept in accounts . in the absence of appropriate budget allocations for the next budget period, the balances are transferred . financial statements are prepared in accordance with national regulations (standards) of accounting in the public sector and other regulations of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine . budget reporting reflects the state of budget execution, contains information in terms of budget classification . monthly report on implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine shall be submitted by the Treasury of Ukraine to the verkhovnarada of Ukraine, the president of Ukraine and the cabinet of ministers . the bodies that control budget levy revenues collection shall submit such monthly reports to the verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, the president of Ukraine . the quarterly report on the implementation of the State Budget shall be submitted by the Treasury of Ukraine no later than 35 days after the end of the reporting quarter . annual report on the implementation of the law on the State Budget of Ukraine shall be submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine and the Accounting Chamber . reports on the use of funds from the reserve fund of the state budget . a report on the state of public debt and state-guaranteed debt is part of the state budget . it includes information on the implementation of local budgets, debts guaranteed by the autonomous republic of Crimea, regional councils and territorial communities . the preparation of such materials is carried out by the central executive body, which ensures the formation of state policy . the accounting chamber prepares and submits to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine conclusions on the implementation of the law on the state budget of Ukraine . the local budget contains revenues and expenditures for the exercise of powers of the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea . 40 per cent of personal income tax is paid (transferred) in the city of Kyiv . 37 per cent rent for special use of forest resources is credited to city budgets . rent for the use of subsoil for the extraction of minerals of national importance is 25 per cent . 13.44 per cent of the excise tax on fuel produced in Ukraine in the manner prescribed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, are credited to the general fund of the relevant local government budgets automatically . income tax on enterprises and financial institutions of communal property, which is paid to the budget of Kyiv . local taxes and fees paid (transferred) in accordance with the Tax Code of Ukraine . license fees for the production of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit and grain distillate . state registration fee is credited to the city budgets of the cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol . income from rent for the use of property complex and other property in municipal ownership . rent for special use of water of water bodies of local significance; rent for forest resources . funds from sale of ownerless property, finds, inherited property, currency values and funds, which owners are unknown . administrative fee for state registration of real rights to immovable property and their encumbrances credited to local government budgets at the place of service . administrative fines and penalties for violations of legislation in the field of production and circulation of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products . penalties due to non-fulfilment of agreements concluded by the budget manager with business entities for the purchase of goods, works and services . 80% of funds received by enterprises, institutions and organisations for gold, platinum, platinum group metals, precious stones . income tax of enterprises and financial institutions of municipal property, whose founder are district councils . concession payments for municipal property are made by district state administrations, district council . revenues of the general fund of district budgets include: a) income tax; b) rent for the use of property complex and other property in municipal ownership . 80% of the funds received by enterprises, institutions and organisations maintained at the expense of the district budgets for gold, platinum, platinum group metals, precious stones . part of the net profit (income) of communal unitary enterprises and their associations is withdrawn to the budget, in the manner determined by the district councils . revenues of the general fund of the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional budgets include 15 per cent of personal income tax . income tax on enterprises and financial institutions of communal property is credited in accordance with the budget . 45% of the rent for the special use of water is also credited . rent for water bodies (parts thereof) provided for use on lease by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional state administrations . part of the net profit (income) of municipal unitary enterprises and their associations is withdrawn to the budget . fee for licenses for certain types of economic activity and certificates issued by the council of ministers is credited in accordance with the budget of the autonomous republic of crimea . fee for state registration is credited to the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and regional budgets by licensees at the place of activity . administrative fines imposed by local executive bodies or administrative commissions formed by them in accordance with the established procedure . funds received from participants of the procurement procedure/simplified procurement as security for their tender offer / proposal of the simplified procurement participant . funds received from the winner of the procurement/simplified procurement procedure, which are not refundable to the participant . revenues and expenditures of the budget of the city of Kyiv shall be formed in accordance with the procedure established by this Code . taxes and fees paid by enterprises operating in the exclusion zone and in the zone of unconditional (compulsory) resettlement shall be credited to relevant local government budgets . local budgets of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea shall mean the budget of the autonomous republic of crimea . revenues specified in parts two and three, Article 29 of this Code shall be credited in full to the state budget . expenditures and crediting of local budget are carried out at the expense and within the limits of receipts to local budget, . without application of the equalisation mechanism which provides granting of subsidy of equalisation . budgets of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol are not regulated . inter-budgetary relations between local budgets are regulated in accordance with the procedure . revenues of the special fund of local budget include revenues of development budget in local budget . 70 per cent of fines for damage caused by violation of environmental legislation credited to local budgets (except for the budgets of Kyiv and Sevastopol) local government budgets can also be credited with other revenues, such as: 25 per cent environmental tax, 30 per cent regional budgets and the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea . funds of the special fund of local budgets are spent on the measures provided by the decision on the local budget according to the legislation . revenues of the development budget include: 3) dividends (income) accrued on shares (stakes) of business companies, which authorised capital includes property of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, municipal property . 90 per cent of funds from the sale of non-agricultural land or rights to them that are in state ownership to the delimitation of state and communal lands . 35 per cent goes to the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, 55 per cent to rural, settlement, city budgets . capital expenditures of the development budget are directed to socio-economic development of regions investment projects . the local budget may be approved with a deficit for the general fund, or a surplus on a special fund . loans to local budgets are subject to the same conditions as for national budgets . local borrowings are made to finance the development budget in the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, city budgets . loans are not provided in the case of placement of local budget funds on deposits and/or servicing of local funds in terms of development budget and own revenues of budgetary institutions . the scope and conditions of local borrowing and the provision of local guarantees shall be agreed with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine . the state is not liable for the debt obligations of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional councils and territorial communities . if the payment schedule is violated in the process of making payments on repayment and servicing of local debt and guaranteed local debt . Temporarily, from the date of entry into force of the law no. 553-IX of 13 April 2020 until 1 January 2021, the rules do not apply, part 1 of Article 75 for local budget forecasts' district state administrations in the cities of Kyiv and sevastopol shall submit to the relevant city financial bodies proposals on the indicators of the draft relevant budgets . rural, settlement and city territorial communities may pool budget funds on a contractual basis for the implementation of joint projects . local financial body determines indicators of the local budget for the medium term . indicators of local budget forecast may differ from indicators determined for relevant budget periods . local budget is drafted in accordance with goals and priorities defined in the forecast and programme documents . instructions for preparing proposals for the local budget forecast may introduce additional financial restrictions, organisational and other requirements . local financial bodies shall submit forecasts of relevant local budgets to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea . a draft decision on the local budget shall be approved by the council of ministers . it shall also contain an explanation for the main provisions of the draft decision . the draft local budget is subject to regulation of the decision on local budget . a local budget is a project of indicators of the consolidated budget of the city territorial community . it determines the maximum amount of annual deficit (surplus) of the local budget in the next budget period, local debt and debt guaranteed by the autonomous republic of crimea . the list of protected expenditures is determined base on Article 55 of this Code . local budgets shall be approved by a decision of the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the relevant local council by December 25 (inclusive) of the year preceding the planned year . local councils shall take into account as a matter of priority the need for funds for salaries of employees at budgetary institutions . local financial authorities carry out the general arrangement and management for the implementation of the relevant local budgets . the local budget is executed according to the schedule approved by the head of the local financial body . local financial body with the participation of the bodies controlling the collection of budget revenues,, shall forecast and analyze the revenues of the respective budget . local budgets implementation by expenditures and crediting shall be carried out in accordance with Articles 46-51 of this Code. the decision to amend the decision on the local budget is made by the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the relevant local council . the fact of over-fulfilment for the revenue part of the general fund in the local . budget is recognised based on the results of the first half and subsequent reporting periods . if no decision on the local budget has been made before the beginning of the new budget period, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administration or executive body of the local council shall have the right to spend local budget expenditures . it is prohibited to make capital expenditures and provide loans from the budget . reporting on the execution of local budgets shall be determined in accordance with the requirements established for reporting on execution of the State Budget of Ukraine in Articles 58-61 of this Code. the Treasury of Ukraine shall compile and submit reports on the implementation of local budgets in the prescribed forms . bodies that control budget levy revenues collection shall submit to the local financial authorities the relevant reports . the purpose of regulating inter-budgetary relations is to ensure compliance of the powers to implement expenditures fixed by law on budgets . expenditures for ensuring constitutional order, state integrity and sovereignty, independent judiciary . expenditures determined by the functions of the state and can be transferred for execution . the state may transfer to the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea or local governments the right to incur expenditures . expenditures specified in clauses 2 and 3, part one, Article 82 of this Code from the relevant local budgets in compliance with the distribution of these expenditures budgets . it is prohibited to make expenditures for the maintenance of budgetary institutions from different budgets during the budget period . goods (works, services) purchased by the key spending unit (local budgets) at the expense of expenditures on centralised activities . Expenditures made from the State Budget of Ukraine include expenditures on public administration, the legislature, the executive power, the judiciary, international activities, scientific and scientific-technical activities, national defence, law enforcement activities, state security and civil protection of the population and territories . expenditures of the second group are made from local government budgets . a third group includes expenditures for the operation of budgetary institutions and the implementation of measures providing public services for certain categories of citizens . professional (vocational) education, scientific and scientific-pedagogical staff on the terms of the state order in higher education institutions of state and private property . specialised, highly specialised outpatient and inpatient care for patients with tuberculosis, specialised sanatoriums for children and adolescents . national rehabilitation institutions and complexes for persons with disabilities in accordance with the list approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . d) sanitary and epidemiological surveillance (labouratory centers, measures to combat epidemics) e) primary medical care, except for the costs of utilities and energy by public health facilities . social protection and social security: payment of pensions to servicemen of the private, sergeant and non-commissioned officer of conscript service and members of their families . a) state social assistance programmes; b) state support of public associations of persons with disabilities and veterans . c) measures related to return to Ukraine of the Crimean Tatar people and persons of other nationalities who were illegally deported from Ukraine . housing subsidies to the population and benefits for housing and communal services . purchase of solid and liquid stove fuel, liquefied gas to certain categories of citizens . rehabilitated citizens who have become disabled as a result of repression . state cultural and educational programmes according to the list approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; state support of cinematography; state archives and insurance fund of documentation . state programmes for the development of physical culture, sports, physical culture and sports rehabilitation of persons with disabilities . state programmes for liquidation of the Chornobyl catastrophe consequences, protection of the natural environment and nuclear safety . expenditures made from the budgets of rural, settlement, urban territorial communities include expenditures on education . territorial communities pay for professional (vocational) education and health care . social protection and social security: shelters for children, centers for social and psychological rehabilitation of children and social dormitories for orphans and children deprived of parental care, small group houses . territorial communities are also responsible for providing social services to the elderly, people with disabilities, children with disabilities . c) state programmes supporting the construction (reconstruction) of housing . d) rural, township and city programmes and measures for the implementation of state policy regarding children, youth, women, families . expenditures made from the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and regional budgets 1 . -1) professional higher education (for the payment of services related to the training of specialists, scientific and scientific-pedagogical staff on the terms of state and/or regional order) -3) health care: consultative outpatient and inpatient care (hospitals of the Republican Autonomous Republic of Crimea and regional significance), centres of emergency medical care and disaster medicine, emergency (ambulance) stations . state programmes of social protection and social security: payment of compensation to the rehabilitated; orphanages; training and employment of persons with disabilities . state cultural and educational programmes: national, state, republican of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional reserves, libraries, museums and exhibitions . regional programmes of development and support for municipal health care institutions: objects of common property of territorial communities . 91. Expenditures of local budgets that can be made from all local budget . local fire protection, municipal formations for the public order protection, local governments . expenditures on education, health, culture, environment, culture and sport . programmes of local significance for children, youth, women, families . local programmes for the development of housing and communal services . measures on organising sea rescue; 12) local debt service . municipal property management; 15) regulation of land relations; 16) measures in the field of protection of the population and territories from emergencies of man-caused and natural nature . holding local elections in cases provided by law and republican Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local referendums . widows (widowers) and parents of deceased persons who have special merits before the Motherland . rehabilitated citizens who have become disabled as a result of repression or are retired . local programmes supporting the acquisition of professional (vocational), professional higher and higher education . local councils may transfer funds for the implementation of certain expenditures of local budgets to another local council in the form of intergovernmental transfer to the relevant local budget . intergovernmental transfers are divided into: 1) basic subsidy; 3) subventions; 4) reverse subsidy . transfers from the state budget to local budget are determined by the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine . procedure and conditions for granting a subvention from the state budget to local budgets is first defined by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine . horizontal equalisation of tax capacity for regional budgets carried out separately for the income tax of enterprises and personal income tax . if the tax capacity index of the relevant regional budget is in the range of 0.9-1.1 – alignment is not carried out . the tax capacity index is a coefficient determining the level of taxability of the local self-government budget . if the index value is in the range of 0.9-1.1 – alignment is not carried out . the terms for the subventions provision are determined by the relevant agreement of the parties . subsidy from the state budget to local budgets for financial support related to the construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of highways . the subvention is provided at the expense of the sources of the formation of a special fund of state budget, taking into account the provisions of part four, Article 24-2 of this Code . 90 per cent of the total subventions are distributed among the corresponding local budgets . educational subvention is aimed at remuneration for pedagogical workers in educational institutions . subvention may be used for the construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of streets and municipal services . the law on the state budget of Ukraine approves the amount of educational subvention separately for the budget of the autonomous republic of crimea, regional budgets and local self-government budgets . the specified subventions provides a reserve of funds, which amount can not exceed 1 per cent of the total subvention . the subvention is aimed at providing state support to educate children with special educational needs . expenditures are carried out for: 1) payment for specialists based on the concluded civil contracts . a typical list of special means of correction for psychophysical development is approved by the central executive authority . 103-4. medical subvention shall be directed at expenditures of local budgets . subventions are distributed based on the formula approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . balances of subvention for the provision of state support to persons with special educational needs are stored . remaining balance for medical subvention at the end of the budget period are stored on accounts of relevant local budgets . additional subsidy for the implementation of expenditures transferred from the state budget for the maintenance of educational and health care institutions . the distribution of additional subsidies is based on the following parameters: population, local budget revenues, number of students . 10 per cent of the amount – in proportion to the share in the number of existing population in the region as of 1 January of the year preceding the planned . 40 per cent – according to the reduced relative taxability index of the consolidated regional budget . 50 per cent for the share of students in the general secondary and professional (vocational) educational institutions . subventions for investment projects are provided from the state budget to local budgets . distribution is carried out in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the main indicators of economic and social development of the relevant territory are indicators of industrial production volume . intergovernmental transfers from the state budget to local budgets are carried out . Treasury of Ukraine transfers basic subsidy and reverse subsidy every decade . Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in coordination with the Committee of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on Budget may distribute and redistribute the amount of subventions and additional subsidies . the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine monitors compliance with budget legislation . it exercises control over the activities of the Accounting Chamber in the exercise of its powers defined by law. accounting chamber has powers to control the receipt and use of funds of the state budget . the ministry of finance monitors compliance with budget legislation at each stage of the budget process . local financial authorities are responsible for monitoring compliance with local budgets . authorities receive explanations, materials and information on issues arising during the compilation, consideration, approval and implementation of budgets. the Treasury of Ukraine ensures the arrangement and coordination for the activities of the chief accountants of budgetary institutions . the verkhovna Rada of the autonomous republic of crimea and relevant local councils to monitor compliance with budget legislation . the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the relevant local councils shall carry out: 1) control over the implementation of the decision on the local budget . chapter 18. RESPONSIBILITY AND MEASURES OF INFLUENCE FOR COMMITTED VIOLATIONS OF BUDGETARY LEGISLATION violation of the requirements in this Code or the law on the State Budget of Ukraine . crediting budget revenues to any accounts, except for the single treasury account . violation of procedures or deadlines for submission and approval of estimates and other documents used in the process of budget implementation . violation of the requirements of this Code in the implementation of state budget expenditures (local budget) in case of untimely entry into force of the law on the State Budget of Ukraine . inconsistency of the data provided in the financial and budgetary reporting of budgetary institutions with accounting data . the following measures of influence may be applied to participants in the budget process for violation of budget legislation . suspension of operations with budget funds – is used for violations of budget laws, defined by clauses 20, 22-29, 38 and 40, part one, Article 116 of this Code . reduction of budget allocations provides for deprivation of the authority to make a budget commitment for an appropriate amount until the end of the current budget period . a warning on improper implementation of budget legislation may be applied . it is not allowed to apply measures of influence for previously identified and eliminated violations . a decision enters into force from the date of its signing . improper use of budget funds is their spending for purposes not meeting budget purpose established by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine . Article 120. Transactions termination for budget funds a suspension for operations of making payments from the account of the violator of budget legislation . Article 123. Responsibility of the Treasury of Ukraine 1. Treasury bodies of Ukraine are responsible for: 1) non-compliance with the requirements for accounting and reporting on the implementation of budgets; 2) late submission of reports on budget execution; 3) implementation of expenditures in excess of the indicators approved by the budget . appeal against the decision to apply an influence measure for violation of budget legislation . the decision to apply a measure of influence for violation of budget legislation may be appealed . an appeal against a decision not to apply an influence shall not suspend execution of the decision . this Code shall enter into force on 1 January 2011, except for clause 20-1, part 1 of Article 91 . in clause 3, part 1, Article 90 of this Code: sub-clauses "a", "b", "c" and "d" are valid until 1 April 2020 . clauses "e", "f", "g", "h" enter into force on 1 January 2020; "g" enters into force 1 April 2023 . provisions of part four, Article 17 do not apply to the provision of state guarantees for credits (loans) of economic entities ensuring the implementation of the international project "Cyclone-4 the provisions of part thirteen, Article 17 of this Code do not apply in case of instalment payment for the debt . the debt of Ukraine to the international monetary fund belongs to the state-guaranteed debt. the guarantee obligations arising due to the implementation of this paragraph belong to a stabilisation (reserve) energy fund. the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has the right to set the amount of social benefits, not determined by law, in absolute amounts within the budget allocations established by the relevant budget programmes . if the relevant provision is provided in the law on the State Budget of Ukraine, the central executive body implementing state policy can borrow under state guarantees . a court decision on recovery (seizure) of state budget (local budgets) funds is executed exclusively by the Treasury of Ukraine . if additional funds in excess of budget allocations are required to compensate for such damage, appropriate proposals on making amendments to the State budget of Ukraine (decision on the local budget) shall be submitted . court decisions providing for the write-off of funds for expenditures, budget allocations for which are not defined by the law on the state budget of Ukraine (decision on the local budget) are subject to appeal by public authorities (authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local governments) in appellate, cassation order . write-off of state budget funds (local budgets) for execution of court decisions is carried out from the time of establishment of budget expenditures for such expenditures . funds reimbursed by the state from the state budget (the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local governments) in accordance with this paragraph, are considered losses . officials and public officials of state authorities, whose actions caused damage, are subject to civil, administrative and criminal liability . state authorities and bodies of the Treasury of Ukraine may apply to the court with a claim for damages to the state budget (local budgets) within a month with the presentation of a counterclaim (recourse) in the amount of compensation paid to officials, public officials of these bodies, guilty of damages . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall establish a list of quasi-fiscal operations and authorities (management) responsible for assessing the possible impact of such operations on budget indicators by 1 January 2013 . approval for the budgets of the compulsory state pension and social insurance funds is carried out by the Cabinet within a month from the date of entry into force of the law . funds of compulsory state social and pension insurance shall submit reports on the implementation of budgets and estimates of the relevant funds . to allow the Kyiv City Council to borrow to repay debts on promissory notes . the Treasury of Ukraine shall credit payments for local taxes and fees incurred before the date of temporary occupation . the Treasury of Ukraine refunds funds erroneously or excessively credited to the local budgets of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol to such accounts . receipt of accrued amounts for the last reporting (tax) period of 2014 are credited (carried out) to/from the state and/or local budget in the manner and under the conditions in force until 1 January 2015 . 17-1. receipt of accrued amounts for the last reporting (tax) period of 2015, tax debt, return of erroneously or overpaid amounts from rent for the transit transportation of natural gas pipelines through Ukraine are credited (carried out) to/from the state budget in the manner and under the conditions in force until 1 January 2018 as an exception to the provisions of clause 5-1, part two, Article 29, clause 4-2, part one, Article 64 and clause 4-1, article 66 of this Code . the return of funds erroneously or excessively credited to the state and/or local budgets from a single account due to technical and methodological errors . the procedure and conditions for granting a stabilisation subsidy are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . regional budgets may be used for staff training on the terms of a regional order for the needs of the entire region . regional council decides to transfer funds for such expenditures to the city council of the city territorial community with the administrative center in the city of regional significance – the regional center . amounts of the specified interbudgetary transfers are defined according to the formula which is confirmed by the corresponding regional council in the annexe to the decision on the regional budget . part three, Article 24 of this Code is not applied in the case of implementation in accordance with the law on the State Budget of Ukraine for the relevant period . part two, Article 18 is not applicable in the following cases: 1) the imposition of martial law in Ukraine or in some of its localities; 2) introduction of a state of emergency in Ukraine . state budget and local budgets in settlements of donetsk and luhansk regions are implemented . expenditures of the state budget are carried out after the return of territories under control of state authorities . balances of funds credited to the regional budgets are directed to restoration of social and transport infrastructure . lists of facilities and activities that will be carried out at the expense of these balances are approved by the relevant regional state administrations, regional military-civil administrations . balances of local budgets of such settlements, which are accounted for as of each reporting date on the accounts in the Treasury of Ukraine, are credited to the special fund of the respective regional budgets in donetsk and luhansk regions . transfer of funds erroneously and/or excessively credited to local budgets of settlements of donetsk and luhansk regions . list is approved by the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine according to the conclusion of the tax authorities . the Treasury of Ukraine notifies the central executive body implementing state tax policy . control over the use of budget funds for own revenues of state and municipal institutions of special professional and higher education, research institutions and cultural institutions . a number of laws on trade unions, their rights and guarantees of activity are in force . u.s., ukraine, eu, britain, germany, france, switzerland, ireland, chinese and turkmenistan have criticized the government's handling of the crisis . in 2015, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may designate such state bodies as the main managers of state budget funds . provisions of paragraphs five to fifteen, part three, Article 2, paragraph five, part one, Article 8, Articles 12-1, 13, 15 and 17 of the law on investment activity are not applied . the procedure for preparation, implementation of investment projects implemented by the state attracting loans from foreign states, foreign financial institutions and international financial organizations is determined by the Cabinet . debt obligations specified in Articles 1 and 2 of the Law of Ukraine "on peculiarities of transactions with state, state-guaranteed debt and local debt" part nine, Article 45 of this Code shall apply from the drafting of the State Budget of Ukraine for 2016 . part six, Article 16, part seven, Article 17 do not apply during validity of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or the city council . the right to place government derivatives belongs to the state in the person of the head of the debt agency of Ukraine . the chairman of the Debt Agency of Ukraine in agreement with the minister of finance of Ukraine undertakes obligations on behalf of Ukraine related to such placement . a condition for payment obligations of the state or the city territorial community does not oblige them to carry out payments in equal or proportional parts . the expected amount of expenditures on payments on government derivatives exceeds the amount specified in the law on the State Budget of Ukraine for this purpose . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall immediately inform the Accounting Chamber of the expected excess of such expenditures . if no decision on the local budget for 2021 is made by 31 December 2020, the executive body of the local council, the district state administration has the right to spend local budget . monthly budget allocations of local budget may not exceed 1/12 of the budget expenditures provided for in the draft decision . until the acquisition of powers by the village, settlement, city council, elected territorial community, functions on drafting the budget of the formed territorial community are carried out . district councils shall transfer from joint ownership of territorial communities of villages, settlements, cities to the ownership of rural, settlement, city territorial communities . from 1 January 2021, expenditures for the operation of these institutions and establishments are planned and carried out from the budgets of such territorial communities. 39-1. Establish that taxes, fees and other income (except for personal income tax, defined in paragraph two of this clause) erroneously or excessively credited to the district budget until 1 January 2020 are subject to return . the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has the right to receive free information containing bank secrecy, personal data . the annual amount of funds of the state budget directed to the state support of agricultural producers is not more than 1 per cent of agricultural output in 2017-2021 . 13.44 per cent of excise tax on fuel produced in Ukraine and 13.44 por cent on fuel imported into the customs territory of Ukraine are automatically credited to local government budgets in 2017 . in 2018 and 2019, in proportion to the amount of fuel sold by retail trade entities in the relevant territory for the second half of 2017 in the total amount of such fuel sold in Ukraine as a whole for the first half of 2018 . to establish that in 2019 and 2020, as an exception to the provisions of clauses 7 and 8, part two, 13.44 per cent of excise tax on fuel produced in Ukraine is credited to general fund of local government budgets automatically . in 2017 the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine submits to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine an updated forecast of the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018 and 2019 . draft Main Directions of Budget Policy for 2018-2020 is submitted to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine no later than 15 June 2017 . 46. to establish that the amount of state budget expenditures on higher education is distributed among higher education institutions based on the formula developed by the central executive body forming and implementing the state policy in the field of education . 47. To establish that in 2021-2023 the funds received by institutions and organizations under the auspices of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine are subject to direction to the State budget of Ukraine . 48. measures of influence established by clause 2, part one, Article 117 of this Code, do not apply to participants in the budget process . provisions of Article 75 (regarding the preparation of the local budget forecast) and Article 75-1 shall apply from 1 January 2020 . the budget forecast for 2021 and 2022 includes indicative forecast indicators of local debt and debt guaranteed by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea . council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea approve forecast of relevant local budget for 2022 and 2023 . 60 per cent of the special fund in 2021 as an exception to the provisions of paragraph 21 of part four of Article 30 of this Code shall be directed to the ministry of infrastructure .