this Law regulates relations in the field of rationing in construction . it determines the legal and organisational principles of construction regulations . the term "rationing method in construction" is used in this Law in the meaning given in the Law of Ukraine "On Regulation of City Planning Activity". this Law shall apply to relations arising in the field of rationing in construction . it does not apply to standardisation of construction materials and products . the central executive authority is responsible for shaping the state policy . central executive authorities in the field of rationing in construction include approving, amending, recognising as invalid, cancelling sectoral construction regulations . preference is given to parametric and target methods . the main requirements for buildings and structures are specified in construction regulations, structural and engineering systems regulations. buildings and structures as a whole and their individual parts must be suitable for their intended use . they should be designed and constructed in such a way that the loads acting on them during construction and operation do not lead to destruction of the entire building or structure, or part of it . the main requirements are to ensure mechanical resistance and stability . the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of construction, creates a central fund of construction regulations . subject of construction rationings create funds of sectoral construction regulations that contain reference copies of sector construction regulations. the funds operate based on the provisions approved by the relevant subjects of construction regulation . the texts of the state construction regulations included in the central construction regulations fund and of the sectoral construction regulations funds shall be published on the official websites of the relevant construction rationing bodies . sources of financing of works on construction are the funds of the State Budget of Ukraine and other funds in the order determined by the legislation. construction regulations are subject to registration within one month of their approval with the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of construction . registered state and sectoral construction regulations and amendments thereto shall enter into force not earlier than 90 days after their registration and promulgation . construction regulations do not contain legal norms. construction regulations, rules of foreign states are applied in Ukraine in accordance with international treaties . the scope of application of the construction regulations is defined in each regulation . construction regulations and amendments thereto shall be made available in their entirety . “state standards” shall be replaced with the words “construction regulations, state standards” . in the Law of Ukraine “On responsibility of enterprises, their unions, establishments and organisations for violations in the sphere of town planning” in paragraph seven, clause 1, Article 4 of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of may 10, 1993, Nos. 46–93 “On standardisation and certification” the words “state construction regulations and rules, as well as” shall be deleted . within six months of the entry into force of this Law, develop: – the concept for the development of the Regulatory Support System for Construction in Ukraine for 2009–2015 .