this Law defines the legal, economic, organisational and financial basis for government regulation of activities in the field of technology transfer . it aims to ensure the effective use of the scientific, technical and intellectual potential of Ukraine, the manufacturability of products, the protection of property rights . patent freedom to operate is a characteristic of technologies and/or their components which means it is possible to make free use of them in a certain state without the risk of violating the intellectual property rights . dual-use technologies – technologies that, in addition to civilian purposes, can be used for the development, manufacturing or use of weapons, military or special equipment . legislation on government regulation of activities in the field of technology transfer is based on the constitution of Ukraine, the civil code of Ukraine and the economic code of ukraine . technology transfer entities are enterprises, scientific institutions, organisations, higher education institutions and others directly involved in the development, transfer and application of technologies and/or their components . technology transfer entities shall interact with each other within the framework of: 1) development of technologies and/or their components; 2) sharing experiences and information on scientific and technological achievements; 3) consultations on the main issues of scientific and technical as well as technological policy . the main task of the authorised body for the development and implementation of state policy in the field of technology transfer shall be to ensure state policy on technology transfer, acquisition, safeguarding and protection of intellectual property rights . authorised body for the implementation of state policy in the field of technology transfer . main tasks are to determine the most effective ways of using and transferring technologies . the body shall foster investment attraction in technology transfer and identify, prevent and suppress violations . central executive authorities shall submit proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in coordination with the authorised body for the development and implementation of state policy in the field of technology transfer . national academy of sciences of Ukraine and branch Academies of sciences shall contribute to the development of competitive, import-substituting technologies and their components . u.s. calls on ukraine to join the eu in promoting technology transfer . ukrainian government says it is committed to ensuring the protection of intellectual property rights . central executive authorities take measures to prevent unfair competition, counterfeiting and unauthorised distribution of technologies and dissemination of confidential information, distribution of dual-use technologies without the permission of the holder of property rights . national academy of sciences and branch Academies of sciences establish divisions for transfer of technology, innovation and intellectual property . Article 9 powers of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local executive authorities, executive bodies of village, settlement, city, district in cities (if established) councils . create favourable conditions for the development and use of appropriate technologies . procedure for transferring property rights to technologies developed for budget funds 1. Property rights to technology and/or its components developed in the course of performing research and development works belong to institutions, organisations and enterprises-contractors . property rights to technology and/or its components, developed in the course of performing research and development works, shall be transferred by institutions, organisations and enterprises-contractors to state authorities, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and branch Academies of sciences . the contractor sends the customer notification about the technology and / or its components developed during the research development works within one month from the date of receipt of the notification from the author . technologies and/or components developed or purchased for budget funds shall be mainly used within the territory of Ukraine . technology transfer activities shall be carried out at the expense of the funds of enterprises, scientific institutions, organisations and higher education institutions . the purpose of conducting state expert examination is to determine the economic feasibility and utility for the state and society of implementing technologies and their components . the procedure is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . technologies and equipment that are supposed to be transferred for use within the territory of Ukraine must be examined . provisions of this Article shall not apply to the export of technologies and/or their components regulated by the Law of Ukraine "On the State Control over International Transfers of Military and Dual-Use Commodities" the procedure for approving the transfer of technology and its components developed or purchased for budget funds, to legal entities registered in other countries . funds from the sale of technologies or technologies and equipment shall be used taking into account the specific conditions defined by this Law . modalities of concluding technology transfer agreements shall include: 1) a list of components of transferred technologies; 3) terms, place and method of transfer of technologies and/or their components . technology transfer agreements shall also include terms concerning: 1) license and its scope for use of technologies and their components . procedures for granting sub-licences for the components of technology to third parties . conditions for sharing technical knowledge necessary for the installation, operation and ensuring operation of equipment . agreements provided for by the Civil Code of Ukraine shall be concluded regarding the disposal of titles to intellectual property . it is not allowed to conclude technology transfer agreements that provide for: 1) import to Ukraine of technologies and/or their components that may harm the environment or human health . the right of the person transferring the technology to determine the sale or re-export price of the relevant products . remuneration for authors of technologies and their components shall take the form of the share of revenue received from their use, or a fixed amount per unit of products in accordance with its price, or given other benefits that can be obtained from the use of technologies . in the absence of an agreement with authors and persons carrying out the transfer of technologies, the amount, terms and procedure for payment shall be determined by collective agreements . the procedure and areas for using funds received as a result of the transfer of technologies developed for budget funds shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . enterprises managed by central executive authorities, accountable to the National Academy of sciences of Ukraine and branch Academies of sciences, may be provided with state guarantees .