this Law establishes the procedure for regulating private law relations that, through at least one of their elements, are related to one or more legal orders other than the Ukrainian legal order . terms used herein shall have the following meanings: a relationship based on the principles of legal equality, free expression of will, property independence . evasion of law – application to legal relationship with a foreign element of the law other than that provided for by the relevant legislation . the scope of this Law applies to private law relations with a foreign element . if an international treaty to which Ukraine is a party lays down rules other than those established by this Law, these rules shall apply . participants in legal relations may independently make a choice of the law applicable to the content of legal relationship . choice of law may be made in respect of transaction in general or its separate part . change of law which are made after the transaction have retroactive effect . application of the law of a foreign state covers all its norms regulating the relevant legal relations . parties to a case have the right to submit documents confirming the content of norms of the law of a foreign state . renvoi to law of Ukraine is accepted in cases on personal and family status of an individual . transactions and other actions aimed at subordinating these relations to the law other than that determined by this Law are null and void . a rule of law of a foreign state shall not be applied in cases where its application leads to consequences that are clearly contrary to the foundations of legal order of Ukraine . documents issued by authorised agencies of foreign states in the prescribed form shall be recognised as valid in Ukraine if legalised . the rules of this Law do not restrict the application of imperative norms of the Ukrainian law regulating relevant relations . foreigners and stateless persons have civil legal capacity in Ukraine on an equal basis with citizens of Ukraine, except in cases stipulated by law or international treaties of Ukraine . rights of an individual to a name, its use and protection are determined by his or her lex personalis . personal non-property rights shall be regulated by the law of the state in which the action or other circumstance that became the basis for the claim for protection of such rights took place . civil status acts of Ukrainian citizens residing outside Ukraine may be registered at a consular office or diplomatic mission of Ukraine . establishment and cancellation of guardianship and custody over juveniles, minors, incapacitated persons, persons whose civil legal capacity is limited . for the purposes of this Law, the location of a legal entity is the state in which it is registered or otherwise established under the law of this state . rules of this law shall apply on general grounds to private law relations with a foreign element with the involvement of the state and legal entities of public law . unless otherwise provided for by law, the form of transaction must meet the requirements of the law applicable to the content of a transaction . a foreign economic contract, if at least one party is a citizen of Ukraine or a legal entity of Ukraine, shall be concluded in the form prescribed by law . transactions the subject of which is intellectual property rights are regulated by the law determined in accordance with the relevant rules of this Law . SECTION V. CONFLICT-OF-LAW RULES OF RIGHTS IN REM Article 38. General provisions on the law applicable to right of ownership and other rights in rem . right of ownership and other rights in rem are protected at the option of the claimant . parties to a contract may, under Articles 5 and 10 of this Law, choose the law . in the absence of agreement between the parties, the law shall apply in accordance with parts two and three of Article 32 . consumption contracts include contracts for the purchase of goods and services by a person (consumer) not for business purposes . choice of law by the parties to consumption contracts may not limit the protection of the consumer's rights granted to him or her by imperative norms of the law of the state of his or her residence . if there is no choice of law by the parties in respect of the consumption contract, the law of the state in which the consumer has a place of residence or location shall apply . provisions of parts two and three of this Article do not apply to contracts of carriage and provision of services . the law of a foreign state does not apply in Ukraine if the action or other fact that became the basis for the claim for damage is not illegal under the legislation of Ukraine . parties to an obligation arising from causing damage may choose law of the forum . labour relations of foreigners and stateless persons working in Ukraine are not regulated by the law of Ukraine unless foreigners work as part of diplomatic missions of foreign states . right to marriage is determined by lex personalis of each of the persons who have submitted an application for marriage . marriage between citizens of Ukraine, marriage between a citizen of Ukraine and a foreigner, is valid in Ukraine . legal effects of marriage are determined by the common personal law of the spouses . spouses who do not have a common place of residence may choose a law that will apply . to regulate the property relations of spouses, spouses may choose lex personalis . choice of law provided for in part two of Article 60 and Article 61 of this Law must be made in writing or explicitly follow from the terms of a marriage contract . termination of marriage is determined by the law that is currently in force in respect of legal effects of marriage . the law of the state in which the person entitled to maintenance has a place of residence shall apply . a person's ability to be an adoptive parent is determined in accordance with his/her lex personalis . inheritance relations are regulated by the law of the state in which the testator had last place of residence . a will or an act of its revocation may not be declared null and void due to non-compliance with the form . foreigners, stateless persons, foreign legal entities, foreign states and international organisations have the right to apply to courts of Ukraine to protect their rights, freedoms or interests . at the request of a court hearing a case, a foreign legal entity must submit a document drawn up in accordance with Article 13 of this Law . if the immovable property in respect of which a dispute has arisen is located on the territory of Ukraine . if in an inheritance case a testator was a citizen of Ukraine and had his or her last place of residence in it . jurisdiction of the courts of Ukraine is exclusive in the following cases with a foreign element . the competence of other bodies of Ukraine to consider cases involving a foreign element is determined by the laws of Ukraine, in the light of Articles 75–77 of this Law . diplomatic representatives of foreign states accredited in Ukraine are subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of Ukraine . if a court needs to service documents or obtain evidence, conduct certain procedural actions abroad, it may send a corresponding letter of request . letters of request of the courts of Ukraine to serve documents to citizens of Ukraine permanently residing abroad may be executed by a consular official of Ukraine . judgements of foreign courts in cases arising from civil, labour, family and economic legal relations may be recognised and enforced in ukraine . this Law shall become effective on 1 September 2005 . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall submit proposals to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on bringing legislative acts of Ukraine in line with this Law . in part one of Article 2, the words “and this Code” shall be replaced with the words "this Code and the Law of Ukraine "On private international law"