this Law regulates legal relations in the field of vine-growing and wine-making of Ukraine . it determines the regulation and control in these branches of production, rights and obligations of producers, powers of executive authorities . this Law shall not apply to producers of grapes and home-made wine intended for own use . wine means an alcoholic beverage made from grapes, the strength of which is obtained as a result of alcoholic fermentation of crushed berries or freshly pressed juice . wine-growing area means an area where technical varieties of grapes constantly reach sugar degree in the must of not less than 150 g/cdm . champagne of Ukraine means white sparkling wine made by its saturation with carbon dioxide of endogenous origin during secondary fermentation of champagne wine materials . collectible wine means specially selected fine wine which after the expiration of the established maturation period in oak containers is additionally aged in bottles for at least 3 years in special storages . fine wine means table or fortified wine of the highest quality with features typical for the wine-growing area and grape varieties . wine of a special type means wine according to the specific name belongs to the traditional type by its origin and has special taste qualities . blend means a mixture of different wine materials, cognac alcohols in a certain ratio with components established by technological instructions . aging is a long technological process of maturation of wine material or cognac of Ukraine in technological packaging . adulteration means intentional counterfeiting of wines, vermouths and cognacs of Ukraine, brands by origin . cognacs of Ukraine mean strong alcoholic beverages with a specific raciness and taste . wine prototype means a type of wine that has historically developed in certain geographical regions . grape alcohol distillate means distillate with volume fraction of ethyl alcohol from 70 to 80 volume per cent . planting vineyards for wine-making shall be allowed only in wine-growing areas . grape varieties planted in accordance with the project for testing new selection grape varieties, shall be released in the prescribed manner . if more than 60 per cent of vineyards are thinned, they shall be excluded from the state register, their passports shall be revoked . table grapes can be used to make ordinary wines, brands and cognacs of Ukraine . processing of grapes wilted on vine to sugar content in must not more than 40 g/100 cc shall be allowed for production of wines . cases of violation of this rule shall be considered as adulteration of wine . materials and substances of Ukrainian and/or non-Ukrainian origin shall be used for the production of wines and cognacs of Ukraine . production, processing, aging and storage of grape wine materials and wines in one room (except for bottling and forwarding) with fruit and berry drinks, vermouth and other flavoured drinks shall be prohibited . new brands of wine products shall be approved by the head of the subject of economic activity . guaranteed storage life of wines of champagne, sparkling and still, cognacs of Ukraine shall be the minimum term during which the producer is responsible for non-compliance with regulatory requirements . in the production of vintage wines blending fine and ordinary wine materials shall be prohibited . Champagne, sparkling and still wines, vermouths, cognacs of Ukraine and brands, in which after the expiration of the guaranteed storage life there is no haze or visible sediment, shall be suitable for further storage and sale . the forecuts and endcuts of cognac alcohol (distilling waste) at the choice of the manufacturer shall be directed to rectification of alcohol for technical purposes . strong wines shall be made from partially fermented must, in which the alcohol content of natural fermentation is not less than 4.2 volume per cent . the addition of grape juice concentrate shall be allowed only in cases stipulated by technological instructions . a collection of wine samples (enoteca) shall be created, the model samples of which are considered the national heritage of Ukraine . wine materials for the production of champagne and sparkling wines shall be made from grapes of certain varieties defined by technological instructions . sparkling wines with technological aging in bottles for at least 9 months shall belong to the category of aged wines . cognacs of Ukraine are strong alcoholic beverages with a specific raciness and taste, made by blending cognac alcohols . vermouths are flavoured wines obtained by blending specially processed table or fortified grape wines . brandies are strong alcoholic beverages with a characteristic bouquet and taste . use of the words "cognac" or "champagne" in the common and proper names of the product, their cognate and consonant words shall be prohibited . wines, vermouths, cognacs of Ukraine and brandies shall not be sold without proper shaping of wares indicating the names, origins, details of the manufacturer . financial sanctions shall be imposed on subjects of economic activity – legal entities in the case of: . adulteration of cognac alcohol, which has been aged for less than 3 years; . production of counterfeit cognac of Ukraine from cognac . alcohol with a shelf life less than provided by technological instructions for the production of this name of co state funding for the establishment of new vineyards shall be suspended . thinness of vineyards planted at the expense of state funding – a fine of five hundred non-taxable minimum incomes . revenue from the illegal sale of products shall be directed to the state budget . adulterated wines, vermouths, cognacs of Ukraine, brandies shall be confiscated . consideration of cases involving violations of the requirements of this Law shall be carried out by relevant officials in accordance with the law . in case subjects of economic activity disagree with the decision in the case made by the central executive authority implementing the state policy .