the law establishes the procedure for concluding, executing and terminating international treaties of Ukraine . it aims to ensure national interests, implement goals, objectives and principles of Ukraine's foreign policy enshrined in the constitution of Ukraine and law of ukraine . international treaties of Ukraine are concluded: by the president of Ukraine or in the name of Ukraine on his behalf; by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . international agreements on matters falling within the scope of powers of ministries, other central executive authorities and state collegial bodies are interdepartmental . in the case of a treaty between the ukrainian government and a foreign state, the parties agree to the terms of withdrawal, financial, economic, environmental and other consequences . proposals for the conclusion of international treaties of Ukraine shall be submitted to the President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, respectively . proposals must include an explanatory note, which identifies possible political, legal, socio-economic, financial, humanitarian and other consequences . the President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall decide on the conduction of negotiations and to sign international treaties of Ukraine . negotiations on the preparation of the text of an international treaty, its adoption, establishment of its authenticity or signing shall be carried out only by authorized persons . in the case of making proposals for the conclusion of a treaty which establishes rules other than those contained in the acts of legislation of Ukraine, comparative tables are added to them . the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine have the right to negotiate and sign international treaties of Ukraine without special powers . head of diplomatic mission of Ukraine in a foreign state or the head of the representative office of Ukraine to an international organisation has the right . a delegation or a representative of Ukraine is obliged to negotiate, carry out other actions in accordance with the powers and directives granted it . ratifications are certified by the signature of the Minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine, if the agreement provides for the exchange of such instruments . international treaties of Ukraine that are subject to ratifying: a) political (on friendship, mutual assistance and cooperation, neutrality), territorial and those related to state borders . proposals for ratification of an international treaty of Ukraine include the following documents: a) presentation to the President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, respectively; b) draft submission to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . documents specified in Clause “b”,“c”,“e” and “g” of this Part . proposals for ratification of an international treaty of Ukraine are submitted to the Ministry of foreign affairs of Ukraine within two months from the date of its signing . draft law is submitted for consideration to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . international treaties of Ukraine that do not require approval are subject to approval . international treaties of Ukraine are approved by the President of Ukraine in the form of a decree . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approves treaties concluded on behalf of the Government of Ukraine . if treaties establish rules other than those contained in the acts of the president of ukraine, they are approved . approval of interdepartmental treaties is carried out in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . decision on accession to international treaties or on their adoption shall be made in the form of a Law of Ukraine on Accession to an International Treaty . treaties come into force for Ukraine after it has given its consent to be bound by an international treaty in accordance with this Law . current international treaties of Ukraine are subject to good faith observance by Ukraine . in case of violation of obligations under an international treaty of Ukraine by its other parties, the Ministry of foreign affairs of Ukraine submits proposals to the President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . current international treaties of Ukraine are part of the national law and are applied in accordance with the procedure prescribed . urrent international treaties of Ukraine are registered with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine . originals of treaties are kept at the ministry of foreign affairs of Ukraine or, where appropriate, duly certified copies and official translations . termination and suspension of the effect of interdepartmental treaties of Ukraine shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . termination of an international treaty of Ukraine releases Ukraine from any obligation to fulfill the treaty and does not affect the rights, obligations or legal status of Ukraine prior to its termination . MONITORING THE EXECUTION OF THIS LAW AND INTERNATIONAL TREATIES OF UKRAINE Article 28. Procedure for monitoring the execution of this Law and international treaties of Ukraine shall be established by the President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . this Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication .