the provisions of this Law shall apply to all business entities, regardless of ownership and type of activity . ecological audit shall mean a documented systematic independent process of assessing the ecological audit entity . the criteria of ecological audit may also include other requirements prescribed by the legislation . ecological audit in Ukraine shall be carried out to ensure compliance with environmental protection legislation during economic and other activities . main tasks of ecological audit shall include: gathering reliable data on ecological aspects of production activity of the ecological audit entity . ecological audit may be voluntary or mandatory . ecological audit can be performed by a person (environmental auditor) who has a relevant degree, experience in environmental protection or related fields for at least four consecutive years . ecological audit customer shall have the right to compensation for damages caused by illegal actions of the ecological audit providers . ecological audit provider shall have the right to determine independently the forms and methods of ecological audit in accordance with the law and the contract with the environmental audit customer . the law shall guarantee the independence of the environmental auditor by means of: regulating his/her activity by law, as well as by an agreement concluded according to this Law . environmental auditors shall be obliged to inform the customer of all cases, detected during ecological audit, violating environmental protection legislation, norms, regulations and deviations from the requirements for reporting and its preparation . ecological audit shall be carried out by virtue of an agreement between the customer and the provider . ecological audit at the military, defence and other entities, information about which is the national security information, shall be held in accordance with this Law, taking into account other legislative acts . ecological audit report shall be the property of its customer and basis for making appropriate decisions by him . certification for the right to conduct an ecological audit shall be issued by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of environmental protection . ecological audits may be carried out at higher education institutions, post-graduate education institutions . central executive authority shall maintain a register of environmental auditors and legal entities entitled to conduct an ecological audit . a mandatory ecological audit can be financed from the State Budget of Ukraine or local budgets . international cooperation in the field of ecological audit shall be implemented in accordance with the laws and international treaties of Ukraine . international treaty of Ukraine may provide for mutual recognition of the results of environmental auditors' certification . this Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication . within three months from the enactment of this Law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall make proposals to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine .