the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine holds: 1. To approve the State Programme for Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to the legislation of the European Union (attached hereto). 2. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law. 3. This Law shall enter into force on the day of its publication. adaptation of legislation shall mean bringing the laws of Ukraine in line with acquis communautaire . source of law in the form of an international treaty: the general principle of the law of the European Union; judgment of the european court of justice . acquis is the legal system of the eu, which includes legislative acts of the EU, common foreign and security policy and cooperation in the area of justice and home affairs . the state policy of Ukraine on the adaptation of legislation shall be shaped as a component of the legal reform in Ukraine . it shall aim at ensuring unified approaches to legislative drafting, compulsory taking into account the requirements of the european union legislation . Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine launched a unified system of planning, co-ordination and control over legislative drafting activities and work on the adaptation of legislation . the first stage of the Programme is envisaged for the period until the expiration of the PCA . a certain degree of compliance of Ukrainian legislation with the legislation of the European Union must be achieved . priority areas in which the Ukrainian legislation will be adapted shall be the areas determined by Article 51 of the PCA . at the first stage of Programme implementation, it is necessary: to ensure the development of a glossary of terms of acquis communautaire . a full-fledged comparative analysis of legal relations in a relevant area in Ukraine and the European Union; developing recommendations . checking the draft laws of Ukraine and other regulatory acts for their compliance with acquis communautaire must become an element of adaptation of legislation . the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall ensure implementation of the Programme in terms of issues falling under its competence . ensuring implementation of the Programme, except for the issues falling under the competence of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . an authority coordinating the work on Programme implementation shall be the competent central executive authority in the field of adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to the legislation of the European Union . each draft law submitted to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall be sent to the Committee on Ukraine's Integration into the European Union . draft laws belonging to areas in which legal relations are regulated by the law of the european union . the regulatory acts, which are contrary to acquis communautaire, may be adopted only subject to sufficient rationale of the necessity to adopt such an act . the specific scope of expenditures for taking the measures on Programme implementation shall be determined in the law on the State Budget of Ukraine for a relevant year . Section XI STAFFING For proper staffing of the Programme implementation, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall take measures on implementing the State Programme of Training, Re-Training and Professional Development of specialists .