the law regulates the relations arising with respect to the state registration of legal entities, their symbols, public organisations that do not have the status of a legal entity, and individual entrepreneurs . the abstract is a document in electronic form or, in cases provided for in this Law, in paper form . public organisations are political parties, structural units of political parties and public associations . state registration of legal entities, public organisations that do not have the status of a legal entity, and individual entrepreneurs . holder of the United State Register is the Ministry of justice of Ukraine, which takes organisational measures related to ensuring the functioning of the register . state registration is the official recognition by the state by certifying the fact of establishment or dissolution of legal entity . authorised representative of legal entity, public organisation that does not have the status of a legal entity . heir or legal successor of member of limited liability company, an additional liability company – when applying for accession to a company under inheritance (legal succession) a person who acquired membership interest (part of the membership interest) in the charter capital of the company . a decision to dissolve a political party, its structural unit due to a court judgement on annulment of registration or prohibition of activities of the political party . an individual who intends to become an entrepreneur, or a person authorised by them – when submitting documents for state registration of an individual entrepreneur . access code to the results of administrative services in the field of state registration is a unique digital sequence of 6 to 12 characters generated automatically . personal area is a personal web-page of a legal entity, an individual entrepreneur and a public organisation that does not have the status of legal entity . registration file is set of documents in paper and/or electronic form, which were submitted for registration actions . personal area can be accessed by legal entities, individual entrepreneurs and public organisations that do not have a status of an organisation . the portal of electronic services provides access to information on the results of the examination of these documents . territorial authorities of the Ministry of justice of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regions, the cities of Kyiv and sevastopol – in case of state registration of primary, local, oblast, regional and republican trade unions, their organisations and associations . technical error is a clerical, typographical, grammatical, arithmetical error made by the state registrar when carrying out registration actions . constituent document of a legal entity is founding act, charter, desk audit is an audit carried out on the premises of the ministry of justice of Ukraine solely on the basis of data from the united state register . terms “ultimate beneficial owner” and “ownership structure” shall have the meanings given in the law of Ukraine . relations arising in the field of state registration shall be regulated by the Constitution of Ukraine, this Law and regulatory legal acts adopted in accordance with this Law . state registration of legal entities, public organisations that do not have the status of a legal entity, on the grounds of documents submitted in paper form, shall be held within the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, region, cities of Kyiv and sevastopol . by an order of the Ministry of justice of Ukraine, state registration may be held in certain cases within several administrative and territorial units . applications for state registration of changes in the information on a legal entity contained in the United State Register shall be transferred to another notary . in case of death of a notary, or declaring them dead or missing in the manner prescribed by law, the notary terminates or suspends their activities . state registration authorities in the field of state registration shall consist of: 1) the Ministry of justice of Ukraine; 2) other state registration entities . representatives offices of foreign business entities shall be subject to registration in the manner prescribed by the Law of Ukraine “On foreign economic activity” a state registrar may be a citizen of Ukraine, who has higher education, meets the qualification requirements defined by the Ministry of justice of Ukraine and a notary . notaries in charge of state registration have responsibilities assigned to them by law . state registration of political parties, all-Ukrainian trade unions and their associations is not permitted . state registrar shall: 1) accept documents; 2) check the documents for grounds to suspend the examination of documents . during registration actions in cases provided for in this Law, necessarily use the information from registers, automated information systems held by state bodies . state registrar shall necessarily check (verify) the information specified in respect of this person, using the information from the State Civil Register . the scope of civil legal capacity of individuals shall be determined and the authority of the representative of an individual or legal entity verified . the civil legal capacity of an individual citizen of Ukraine shall be verified through obtaining the information on this person from the State Civil Register . a non-resident legal entity shall be registered on the grounds of an extract from the relevant register kept by the country of residence of such legal entity . the state registrar shall have no right to carry out registration actions in respect of the state registration entity with which they are in labour relations . the state registrar shall have no right to carry out registration actions in respect of themselves, their husband or their wife, their relatives . in case of armed conflict, temporary occupation, anti-terrorist operation, the Ministry of justice of Ukraine may decide to temporarily block access to the United State Register . the software of the united state register shall ensure: 1) automation of the state registration process and other registration actions . state registration under the principle of extraterritoriality . information constituting state secrets shall not be entered into the United State Register . the portal of electronic services shall ensure: 1) interaction with the applicant in “question-answer” format; 2) submission of documents in electronic form for state registration . information on a legal entity shall be entered into the United State Register . information on state bodies and local governments as legal entities . the information on an individual entrepreneur is not included in the register . data on the status of a public organisation must include surname, name, patronymic (if any), date of birth, country of citizenship, place of residence, taxpayer identification number . information must also be provided on the establishment of requirements to notarise the authenticity of member’s signature during their decision-making on respective legal entity’s activity. surname, name, patronymic (if any), date of birth, country of citizenship, series and number of passport document of a citizen of Ukraine, place of residence, rtaxpayer identification number . if a legal entity has no ultimate beneficial owner of the legal entity, including the founder, the justified reason for their absence shall be recorded . data on a legal entity, which dissolves through merger, consolidation, split-up or transformation, to a successor . data on legal entity that is a separate unit of a public organisation . information on the territory within which a political party operates . information on structural units of a political party contained in part 2 of this Article . additional information on political parties that do not have status of legal entity . information on whether a legal entity is undergoing the process of dissolution . data on the revocation of a decision of the founders (members) or the body authorised by them to dissolve a legal entity . data on legal entities the successor of which is a registered legal entity, including information on property administrator, rehabilitation manager, liquidator . data on symbols: type of symbols (party anthem, flag, identification mark, motto, emblem, other types); grounds to suspend the examination of documents; grounds to refuse state registration . data on licensing the economic activity of a business entity: kind of economic activity subject to licensing, which the licensee is entitled to engage in . information on suspending a decision of the licensing authority being appealed . date and number of an order by a specially authorised licensing authority on the examination of the complaint . information on recognising the licence as invalid, including the date of decision (if any) the requirements of paragraphs three to seven of this clause shall not apply to defence industry enterprises . a person who paid for the outstanding shares in a way other than in cash must specify the surname, name, patronymic of an individual or the name of a legal entity . the information on state bodies and local governments as legal entities shall contain the following information . data on persons (if any) who may act on behalf of the legal entity . data on whether a legal entity is undergoing the process of dissolution . information on grounds for refusal of state registration . the United State Register shall contain the following information on an individual entrepreneur: surname, name, patronymic; 2) date of birth; 3) taxpayer identification number or passport series and number . information on making public the results of the examination of documents submitted for state registration . date and number of a decision by a licensing authority to issue a license to engage in economic activity subject to licensing . list of types of works covered by the license; date of the licence, validity term of the license . information on locations where the licensee is engaged in the economic activity, including the date of adding information on the locations . the United state register shall contain the following information on the state registration of public organisations that do not have the status of a legal entity . it shall also contain information on rectification of mistakes made in the information of the United State Register . list of founders of a public association: surname, name, patronymic, date of birth, country of citizenship, place of residence, passport series and number, if founder is an individual . information on the person (persons) authorised to represent the public association . information on a foreign non-governmental (charitable) organisation: full name, location, country of registration; date of a power of attorney in the name of the head . information on permanent arbitration courts: surname, name, patronymic, education, last place of employment, length of service by occupation . a constituent part of the United State Register is the United Register of Insolvency Practitioners of Ukraine . it contains the following information: registration number of an entry on an insolvency practitioner; . taxpayer identification number or passport series and number . date and number of the record of a decision by the qualification commission on passing the exam . the information contained in the United State Register shall be open and publicly accessible . in the cases provided for in this Law, a fee shall be charged for its provision . the information shall be provided in the form of free of charge access through the portal of electronic services . information from the United State Register, which is up-to-date at the moment of request, necessary for the issue of authorisation documents and licences, for the conclusion of civil law contracts . information on property administrator, rehabilitation manager, a chairman of the dissolution committee, an administrative receiver, on restrictions concerning the representation, on intitation of enforcement proceedings . free access through a personal area to documents submitted by a legal entity, an individual entrepreneur and a public organisation . private law entities may be granted real-time direct access to the United State Register on a paid basis . abstracts for apostille, abstracts in paper form and documents contained in a registration file shall be provided within 24 hours . the results of administrative services in the field of state registration shall be subject to mandatory free of charge publication on the portal of electronic services . the technical administrator of the United State Register shall ensure the transfer of information on such a registration action to the information systems of the state bodies . the technical administrator of the united state register shall ensure the transfer of information from an application for state registration of the establishment of a legal entity . information from the register shall constitute the grounds for their registration with the state statistics authorities, tax authorities and/or other actions under the legislation . information from the United State Register shall constitute the grounds for their deregistration with the state statistics authorities, tax authorities and/or other actions under the legislation . the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of statistics shall ensure the transfer of the following information to the register . financial statements on the economic activity of a legal entity as a part of the balance sheet and profit and loss statement . a taxpayer identification number is assigned to an individual stating this number, or the right to make payments under passport series and number . date and number of an entry on registration as a payer of taxes and fees, name and identification code of the tax authority wherein a legal entity, its separate unit, a separate unit of a foreign non-governmental organisation, representative office . pension fund of Ukraine shall ensure the transfer of the following information to the United State Register: on no (any) arrears on payment of insurance funds to the Pension Fund of Ukraine and social insurance funds . the information shall be transferred on the day of receiving the information on the state registration of establishment of a legal entity . arrears on payment of insurance funds to the Pension Fund of Ukraine and social insurance funds – within 30 calendar days from the date of receiving the information on the registration action . the National Securities and Stock Market Commission shall ensure the transfer of information on initiation and completion of enforcement proceedings to the United State Register . documents for state registration may be submitted in paper or electronic form . in paper form the documents shall be submitted personally by an applicant or by post . if the documents are submitted by a representative, a copy of the original (a notarised copy thereof) document certifying their powers . documents in electronic form shall be submitted by the applicant using the portal of electronic services in the manner determined by the Ministry of justice of Ukraine . court judgements entailing changes in the information in the United State Register and on prohibition (cancellation of prohibition) to engage in registration actions shall be sent under the procedure established by the Law of Ukraine “On Enforcement Proceedings” . documents submitted for state registration shall meet the following requirements: 1) the documents shall be written in the state language and additionally, at the request of the applicant, in another language  a decision by an authorised managerial body of a legal entity shall be executed in compliance with the requirements established by law and shall comply with the legislation . the authenticity of signatures in the decision submitted for the state registration of changes in the information on a state body, local government, public association or charitable organisation . the authenticity of signatures in the constituent document of a legal entity shall be notarised . the effect of paragraph 1 of this clause in terms of notarisation of signature authenticity shall not apply to the state registration of the establishment of an entity . constituent documents of banks, other legal entities, which are subject to approval by the National Bank of Ukraine, other state bodies in accordance with the law, shall be submitted with a note of their approval . authenticity of signatures in the transfer certificate and spin-off balance sheet of the legal entity shall be notarised . documents issued under the legislation of a foreign state shall be legalised (consular legalisation or apostille) in the manner prescribed by law, unless otherwise provided by international treaties . the name of a legal entity shall contain information on its organisational and legal form . symbols of communist and/or national socialist (nazi) totalitarian regimes prohibited to be used . laws may establish peculiarities of the names of companies, holding companies, banks, pension funds, corporate investment funds . requirements for spelling the name of a legal entity, its separate unit shall be established by the Ministry of justice of Ukraine . documents to be submitted for state registration of the establishment of legal entity (including due to spin-off, merger, transformation, split-up) a list of persons (citizens) who participated in the constitutive congress (conference, meeting) – in case of state registration of establishment of public associations or a political party . list of participants in the congress, conference, constituent or general meeting of trade union members . state registration for the reorganisation of local governments as legal entities shall be subject to the peculiarities provided for in the Law of Ukraine "On Voluntary Amalgamation of Territorial Communities" the state registrar shall establish data on an ultimate beneficial owner of a legal entity . state registration during the establishment, reorganisation of raion state administrations, local governments as legal entities shall be subject to the peculiarities determined by the Law of Ukraine “On Local State Administrations” . an application for state registration of entering the information on a legal entity into the United State Register, as well as a copy of a statement from the united state register of enterprises and organisations of Ukraine . a copy of the original (a notarised copy thereof) decision by an authorised managerial body of a legal entity . except for changes in the information on the ultimate beneficial owners (controllers) of the legal entity, including the founder . a document confirming the registration of foreign entity in its host country (extract from commercial, bank or court register) a notarised copy of the decision by an authorised managerial body of a legal entity to secede from the founders (members) of the legal entity . a photocopy of the death certificate of an individual, a court judgement on recognising an individual as missing . an extract, abstract or another document from the commercial, bank or court register confirming the registration of non-resident legal entities . documents must be submitted for the state registration of changes in the information on a legal entity contained in the United State Register . a decision by the general meeting of members (decision of the sole member) of a limited liability company, an additional liability company . an extract, abstract or another document from the commercial, bank or court register confirming the registration of non-resident legal entity . authenticity of signatures of members who voted for decisions shall be notarised . information from the United State Register shall be used to confirm the succession of the legal entity . the effect of this part in terms of notarisation of a signature shall not apply to the state registration of changes in the information on a legal entity. for the state registration of changes in the information on a legal entity contained in the United State Register due to suspension (termination) of membership in a public organisation by a member of the governing body (except for the head) such a person shall submit a copy of the application . for the transition from a model charter to the operation under its own constituent document, the original decision by an authorised managerial body is required . extract, abstract or another document from the commercial, bank or court register confirming the registration of a non-resident legal entity in its host country . a notarised copy of the identity document of an ultimate beneficial owner . documents to be submitted for the state registration of the decision to spin-off a legal entity . notarised copy of decision by members of a legal entity or a relevant body . in cases provided for by law – decision of relevant state bodies . documents to be submitted for state registration of dissolution due to winding-up . a statement of an archival institution on acceptance of documents . a statement of an archival institution on acceptance of the documents that shall be subject to long-term storage according to law . documents for the state registration of the establishment of a legal entity as defined in part 1 of this Article - in case of dissolution due to transformation . legal entities shall have information on the ultimate beneficial owner and an ownership structure . if the founder of a legal entity is a non-resident legal entity, an extract, abstract or another document from the commercial, bank or court register must be submitted . legal entities shall be obliged to keep the information on the ultimate beneficial owner and an ownership structure up to date, update it and notify a state registrar of the changes within 30 business days of their occurrence . if a legal entity discovers any incompleteness or inaccuracy or errors in the information, the legal entity shall re-submit the corrected information . the form and content of the ownership structure shall be established by a central executive authority ensuring the formation and implementation of the state policy . a notarised copy of the identity document of an ultimate beneficial owner of a legal entity – for a non-resident individual . an application for state registration of an individual as an entrepreneur may specify a request for registration . 5) a contract (declaration) on the establishment of a family farm - in case an individual entrepreneur has established a . family farm under the Law of Ukraine "On Farming" 6) a photocopy of the death certificate of an individual, a court judgement on recognising an individual as missing . application for state registration of changes in the information on a public association that does not have the status of a legal entity contained in the United State Register . a member of the governing body (except for the head) shall submit a copy of the application for suspension (termination) of their membership in the relevant statutory bodies . a copy of the decision of an authorised managerial body of the founder of a permanent arbitration court on its dissolution shall be submitted for the state registration of dissolution of the court . documents to be submitted by the applicant for state registration . of structural units of political party that do not have status of legal entity . state registration in Ukraine of separate unit of a foreign non-governmental organisation, a representative office, branch of foreign charitable organisation . a member of the governing body (except for the head) shall submit a copy of the application for suspension (termination) of their membership in the relevant statutory bodies of the political party with a note of acceptance . documents to be submitted by the applicant for state registration of changes in the information on a structural unit in the united state register . application for state registration of separate unit of a foreign non-governmental organisation, representative office, a branch of foreign charitable organisation . copy of the document issued by an authorised body of the foreign state that confirms the registration of the fngo . power of attorney (notarised copy thereof) in the name of the head of the separate unit . documents to be submitted for state registration of changes in information on separate unit of a foreign non-governmental organisation . power of attorney (notarised copy thereof) in the name of the head . extract, abstract or another document from the commercial, bank or court register confirming the registration of non-resident legal entity . state registration and other registration actions shall be carried out on the grounds of: 1) documents submitted by the applicant for state registration; 2) a notarised copy of the decision by an authorised managerial body of a legal entity on approval of the symbols . court judgements, which have become legally effective and entail the change of information in the United State Register, as well as received in electronic form from the court or state executive service . procedure for state registration and other registration actions under the documents submitted by the applicant shall include: 1) filling out the form of application - in case documents are submitted in person; 2) receiving the documents under the list; 3) entering the copies of documents in electronic format into the united state register; 4) checking the documents for grounds to suspend the examination of documents; a state registration entity shall issue (send by mail with an enclosure list) an abstract from the United State Register to the applicant, the company, persons who were listed in the register as members of the company before the registration action . the abstract shall include the signature and seal of the state registrar . on the day of state registration of changes in the information in the united state register related to a change in the membership of a limited liability or additional liability company . a court judgement to cancel (declare invalid) the state registration of a legal entity through its winding-up shall be adopted before 1 July 2004 . a state registration entity shall apply to the court for clarification of the court judgement if it is unclear to it . it shall carry out a relevant registration action by making an entry into the United State Register . state registration of the dissolution of a legal entity due to its winding-up shall include: . making an entry in the united state register – not later than the next business day from the date of the ground provided for in part 4 of this Article . information on no arrears on payment of taxes and fees . on no uncanceled issues of securities of legal entity - issuer . if failure to receive information referred to in this part from state bodies, in the manner and within the periods specified by this the procedure for state registration, preparation and execution of decisions on registration of public organisations, symbols and other registration actions shall be determined by the Ministry of justice of Ukraine . in relation to a legal entity and individual entrepreneurs – within 24 hours after receipt of the documents submitted for the state registration . if a state registrar finds out other packages of documents registered in the United State Register regarding the same entity, the next package is examined . state registration of rights shall be carried out after the occurrence of certain circumstances . documents submitted for state registration shall be examined within one business day . the documents may be submitted for examination within 20 business days . examination of documents submitted for state registration of public organisation shall be suspended for a period of 15 calendar days from the date of their suspension . grounds for refusal of state registration: 1) documents have been submitted by a person not authorised thereto; 2) the United state register contains information on a court judgement to prohibit a registration action . documents requiring the elimination of the grounds for suspension shall be returned (issued, sent by mail) to the applicant . documents submitted to an irrelevant state registration entity; 4) grounds to suspend examination of documents have not been eliminated within the prescribed period; 5) documents contradict the requirements of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine; 6) documents contradict a charter of a public organisation; 7) documents violate the procedure provided for by law for establishing a legal entity . changes in the information of the United State Register due to the change in the membership of the founders (members) of the legal entity . documents for state registration of the dissolution of a legal entity have been submitted: earlier than the deadline established by this Law . legal entity winding-up in respect of which information has been received on any arrears on payment of taxes and fees . charter submitted with changes adopted without taking into account votes attributable to a deceased member of the company . grounds for refusal of state registration of an individual entrepreneur: documents submitted by a person not authorised thereto . refusal of state registration shall be carried out within 24 hours after receipt of the documents submitted for state registration, except for weekends and public holidays . a registration file in paper form shall be stored by a state registration entity at the location of a legal entity, a public organisation or an individual entrepreneur . a registration file in paper form shall be stored for five years from the date of making an entry in the United state register on state registration of dissolution of a legal entity . an electronic version of the registration file shall be kept for 75 years . the procedure for the generation and storage of registration files shall be determined by the Ministry of justice of Ukraine . state registration entity that stores a registration file shall be obliged to make copies of the documents withdrawn from the registration file in paper and electronic form . copies of documents in paper form shall be numbered, bound and stamped . original documents shall be sent by mail to a court or transferred directly to the person authorised by the court to receive them . a state registration entity shall notify a public association if it has fewer separate units than it is provided by part 1, Article 19 of the Law of Ukraine “On public associations” a copy of this decision shall be provided to the public association not later than the day following its adoption . in case of revealing a mistake (a clerical, typographical, grammatical, arithmetical error) in the information of the United State Register, the applicant shall notify the state register entity in writing . a state registrar shall notify the relevant law enforcement agencies for taking necessary measures in case of revealing a violation of legislation . a territorial authority of the Ministry of justice of Ukraine shall examine the complaints: 1) against registration actions carried out by the state registration entity; 2) against decisions, actions or omissions of territorial authorities . complaints concerning a state registrar and state registration entities shall be examined by the territorial authority of the Ministry of justice of Ukraine . decisions, actions or omissions of the state registration entity may be appealed to the ministry within 60 calendar days from the date of adoption . a person who believes that their rights have been violated may file a complaint in writing . the complaint shall be accompanied by duly certified copies of documents confirming the violation of the complainant's rights . following the examination of the complaint, the Ministry of justice of Ukraine and its territorial authorities shall adopt a reasoned decision to dismiss the complaint or redress (fully or partially) the complaint . if the complaint against the decision, actions or omission of a state registrar is filed by a complainant’s representative, such complaint must be filed by such representative . the decisions provided for in subclauses “a”, “e” and “g”, clause 2 of this part shall be adopted solely by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine . the procedure for temporary blocking and cancelling the access of a state registrar to the United State Register shall be determined by the ministry . a decision on temporary blocking or cancelling notary’s access to the United State Register, cancelling the accreditation of a state registration entity has been adopted . the Ministry of justice of Ukraine and its territorial authorities shall dismiss the complaint if: 1) the complaint is drawn up without complying with the requirements defined in part 5 of this Article; 2) there is information on a court judgement or ruling on the plaintiff’s withdrawal of the claim relating to the same subject matter of the dispute . control in the field of state registration shall be exercised by the Ministry of justice of Ukraine . in case of detecting violations of the procedure for state registration, the ministry shall conduct a desk audit . the technical administrator of the United State Register shall ensure their immediate execution . on the date the decisions provided for in clause 1 and 2, part 2 of this Article are received . state registration entities shall be liable for violations of the legislation in the field of state registration in the manner prescribed by law . Founders (members) of a legal entity shall be responsible for the compliance of constituent documents with the legislation . persons guilty of entering knowingly false information to be entered into the United State Register into the constituent documents . administrative fee shall be charged for state registration in the amount of 140 subsistence minimums for able-bodied persons . administrative fee for changes in the information on a legal entity (except for public associations and charitable organisations) shall not exceed 75 per cent of the administrative fee set out in this part. no administrative fee shall be charged for state registration of changes in the information on a legal entity, an individual entrepreneur and a public organisation . administrative fee of 30 per cent of the administrative fee set out in part one of this Article shall be charge for the rectification of a technical error due to the fault of an applicant . the administrative fee for state registration of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs shall be credited to the budget in the manner prescribed by the Budget Code of Ukraine . financial support of state registrars (except for private notaries) shall be at the expense of state and local budgets . the procedure for payment and the amount of remuneration for the conscientious fulfilment of the powers regarding state registration .