international transfers of military and dual-use goods shall mean export, import, re-export of goods, their temporary export outside Ukraine or temporary import to its territory . export shall mean sale or transfer on other lawful grounds of goods to foreign business entities and subjects for other activity with or without exporting the customs border of Ukraine . import shall mean purchase or receipt on another lawful ground of goods previously imported to Ukraine, as well as diplomatic missions and consular institutions of Ukraine abroad . military goods shall mean armament, ammunition, military and special vehicles . military services shall mean provision of services in the field of development, manufacture, construction, assembly, testing, repair, maintenance, modification, modernisation, sale, destruction . technical assistance shall mean conduction of briefings, provision of advisory assistance . dual-use goods shall mean certain types of goods, equipment, materials, software and technologies specifically unappropriated for military use . services (technical assistance) can gain a form of a briefing, recurrent training, training, mastery of working methods, and can include technical data transfer . permission shall mean a document issued by the central executive authority which grants the right to export or import goods . a document issued by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of State Export Control grants the right to temporarily import or export goods or their transit, conduct negotiations . the conclusion can be one-time, general or open . state export control means a set of measures to control the international transfer of goods, their use by a legal entity or individual . intermediary (brokerage) activity shall mean any actions of a business entity of Ukraine that contribute to the implementation of international transfers of military goods . warranty document shall mean a document that contains a written obligation (confirmation) of an authorised state authority of Ukraine or a foreign state regarding the use of goods for the stated purposes . this Law shall not apply to: export, import following international treaties of service pistols and standard-issue weapons . import for the period of anti-terrorist operation and/or the introduction of martial law . legal basis of State Export Control is the Constitution of Ukraine . public policy in the field of State Export Control shall be formed in accordance with the following principles . priority of national interests of Ukraine -political, economic and military, advocacy of which is necessary to ensure national security . methods of exercising of State export control shall be: identification of goods, which provides for establishing the correspondence of specific goods . implementation of public policy in the field of State Export Control is ensured by the central executive authority implementing state policy . specified executive authorities can also involve other central executive bodies, Ukrainian missions abroad and legal entities . information on international transfers of goods received by the bodies exercising state export control shall be used exclusively for the purposes of export control . lists of goods subject to State Export Control are compiled for the relevant classes of goods by the central executive authority . representatives of enterprises, scientific institutions, organisations and their associations can also be involved in compiling the lists . lists shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . if any business entity is notified of the possibility of full or partial use of any goods intended for export or temporary export to other countries, it must apply . examination in the field of State Export Control shall be conducted by the central government body, implementing public policy . main tasks of the examination are assessment of the state of protection of national security interests . assessment of the value of exports of goods in terms of the possibility of creating in the state that is the ultimate customer of these goods . assessment of state of compliance by the entity of international transfers of goods with the legislation in the field of State Export Control . business entities of Ukraine, state customers in the field of defence, shall be pre-registered as entities of international transfers of goods . term of consideration of applications and decision-making on issuance or refusal to issue a registration certificate shall be 30 business days from the date of receipt of all necessary documents . in case of need for additional interdepartmental coordination - after such coordination . the business entity, state customer in the field of defence and entities specified in part three, Article 15 of this Law have the right to entrust the preliminary identification of goods to the legal entity that has received in the prescribed manner the authority to carry out activities . the term of consideration of applications and decision-making on issuance or refusal of a certificate of commissioning shall be 45 business days . business entities must obtain appropriate powers from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . state customers in the field of defence shall be authorised to import military goods and goods that contain classified information . creation of a system of internal export control is mandatory for the entity of international transfers of goods . a single permission or conclusion can be issued to the entity of international transfers of goods . it is valid for the established term, but not more than one year . permission can be extended by the central government body, implementing public policy in the field of State export control . granting an entity of international transfers of goods a general and open permit or conclusion is the creation of this entity's system of internal export control . the term of consideration of applications and decision-making on issuance or refusal to issue permissions or conclusions shall be established depending on the category of goods. in case of all the necessary documents are not received within two months, the application shall be considered rejected and shall not be subject to processing . entity of international transfers of goods or entities referred to in part three, Article 15 of this Law shall apply in writing to the central government body, implementing public policy in the field of State Export Control . an application for a permit, conclusion or International Import Certificate shall not be considered if: it is submitted (signed) by a person who does not have the authority to do so . recognition in the manner prescribed by law of bankruptcy of the entity of international transfers of goods . breaching of legislation, including committing violations provided for in Article 24 of this Law . a business entity of Ukraine shall be prohibited from concluding foreign economic agreements (contracts) in respect of transfers of any goods or participating in their execution . a business entity, a state customer in the field of defence is obliged to refuse the fulfilment of a foreign economic agreement (contract) on the international transfer of any goods if it became known that the goods will be used for other purposes or by another ultimate customer . an entity of international transfers of goods shall take measures to verify the delivery and end-use of goods in case of their export . State Export Control over the fulfilment by ultimate customers in Ukraine of obligations to use imported goods for the stated purposes shall be carried out based on analysis of reports of business entities - ultimate customers on the actual use of goods . inspection with the participation of representatives of foreign exporters and/or competent state authorities of the exporting state . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall establish the procedure for providing warranties and exercising state control . decision to grant a permit or conclusion on implementation of international transfer shall be made by the central government body, implementing public policy in the field of State Export Control . customs authorities carry out customs formalities necessary for the passage through the customs border of Ukraine, release into the relevant customs regime of military goods and dual-use goods . the entity of international transfers of goods is obliged to provide documents and information necessary for its implementation of measures in the field of export control . central government bodies within their powers have the right to conduct investigations related to violations of State Export Control legislation . in case of detection of violations of the legislation in field of state export control, specified central governments bodies shall inform the relevant bodies of pre-trial investigation . international transfers of goods, despite the fact that the business entity has become aware that the goods will be used for other purposes or by another ultimate customer . intentional concealment of information relevant to the issue of issuing a permit, conclusion or International Import Certificate . carrying out international transfers without the consent of the central government body, implementing public policy in the field of State Export Control . intentional destruction of documents related to the conclusion and execution of foreign economic agreements (contracts) for international transfers of goods . central government body, implementing public policy in the field of State Export Control, shall impose fines on the entities . fines for violations referred to in paragraphs two and three, Article 24 of this Law are 150 per cent of the value of goods that have been the subject of a relevant international transfer . the central government body can revoke or suspend the permit, conclusion or International Import Certificate issued to such entity for international transfers of goods . in case of implementation by such entity of the offences provided for in paragraphs two to seven, Article 24 of this Law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the request of the central . government body, implementing public policy in the field of State Export Control can also cancel its registration with this body . fines provided for in Article 25 of this Law, shall be imposed by the head of the central government body, implementing public policy in the field of State Export Control or his deputy . report on the commission of an offence referred to in Article 24 of this law shall be provided within three days to the officials specified in part one of this article . business entities - individuals who violate the legislative requirements in the field of State Export Control, bear administrative, criminal and civil liability under the law . finance for measures related to the implementation of State export control shall be provided by the State Budget of Ukraine for the maintenance of the relevant state bodies .