the Economic Code of Ukraine shall establish legal fundamentals of the economic activity . it shall aim to ensure growth of business activity of economic entities and development of entrepreneurship . economic activity may be conducted without the purpose to generate profit . internal economic relations deemed those relations established between structural units of an economic entity . property and personal non-property relations, regulated by the civil code of Ukraine, shall not be governed by this Code . relations with the participation of economic entities arising in the course of meeting the requirements of the legislation regulating relations in the area of preventing and countering proceeds from crime . economic activity in Ukraine shall be as follows: economic diversity and equal protection of all economic entities secured by the state; freedom of entrepreneurial activity within the limits defined by law; free flow of capital, products and services throughout the territory of Ukraine; protection of domestic commodity producers . economic relations shall be regulated by the Constitution of Ukraine, this Code, Laws of Ukraine . the state, government authorities and local governments shall not be deemed economic entities . economic strategy shall determine priority goals of the economy, means and ways of their implementation . economic tactics shall be understood as a set of short-term goals, objectives, means and ways of their achievement . priority areas of the state economic policy determined by the state shall be industrial, agricultural, construction and other sectors of economic policy . policy of the institutional changes aimed at creating an efficient, multi-structural economic system through transformation of ownership relationships . economic strategy and tactics in the economic sector shall be aimed at securing economic, organisational and legal conditions . the state shall implement social policy to protect consumer rights, salary and personal income policy, employment policy, social protection and security policy . legislation shall determine principles of state forecast and elaboration of programmes of economic and social development of Ukraine . basic forms of state planning of the economic activities shall be the State Programme of Economic and Social Development of Ukraine, the state budget of Ukraine and other state programmes . economic entities that do not take into account public concerns defined in the programme documents of economic development shall not be granted benefits and privileges . state order deemed a means of state regulation of the economy . state contract shall provide for economic and legal obligations of the parties . specific aspects of relations arising from supplies (procurement) of agricultural products, foodstuffs, munitions and military machinery shall be regulated in compliance with the law . trade patent shall be deemed a state certificate confirming the right of an economic entity to engage in certain types of entrepreneurial activity during a specified term . the procedure for assignment of quotas for production and/or turnover shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with law . taxation system in Ukraine, taxes and duties shall be established exclusively by laws of Ukraine . tax rates shall be of a regulatory nature, and shall not be established individually for each economic entity . economic entities shall be entitled to independently practice economic activities not prohibited by law with no restrictions . the state shall control and supervise economic activities in terms of storage and use of funds and material assets by economic entities . government authorities and officials shall inspect and audit activities of economic entities in an unbiased, unprejudiced and efficient manner . economic entities and separate units of legal entities assigned to separate balance sheets shall maintain primary (operational) accounting of their activities . demand for other statistical information and data than those established by law is prohibited . chambers of commerce and industry may be established in order to facilitate the national economy’s growth . employers' organisations shall be deemed self-governing statutory organisations . economic entities of the state sector of the economy shall operate exclusively on the basis of state ownership . relations between management bodies and the above economic entities may be exercised on the contractual basis . local governments shall exercise their powers with regard to economic entities exclusively within the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine, laws on local governments . local governments and their officials shall be entitled to apply to the court to invalidate acts of enterprises, other economic entities . economic entities of the state sector of the economy shall implement an anti-corruption programme under procedure established by law. the legal status of an individual economic entity in the communal sector of the economy shall be determined by authorised management bodies . economic entities of communal sector deemed entities that act exclusively on the basis of communal ownership . the state shall support competition as a contest between economic entities, with consumers not determining terms of selling their products in the market . a dominant position of an economic entity that provides it an opportunity to restrict competition in the market shall be deemed monopolistic . natural monopoly entities may be economic entities of any form of ownership (monopoly groups) imposing of agreement terms that put contractors into unequal conditions, or additional terms not related to the subject of the agreement, including hard-sell abuse . fixing of monopoly high or discriminating prices (tariffs) for their goods, which results in violation of consumers’ rights or restricts the rights of certain consumers . discrimination of economic entities by government authorities: prohibition to establish new enterprises or other organisational economic forms . unauthorised use of somebody else’s markings, promotional materials, packaging; unlawful use of another producer’s goods shall be deemed unlawful . copying of the external design of a product of another economic entity, and putting it into the economic turnover without unequivocal indication of the copy’s producer shall not be considered copying . advertising that contains comparison with other entities, goods (activities) of another economic entity shall be deemed comparative . instigation to boycott an economic entity or discriminate a buyer (customer), or to terminate an agreement with a competitor, subornation of a supplier’s (buyer’s) employee. subornation of a supplier’s employee shall be deemed providing or offering to such an employee material values, property or non-property benefits directly by the buyer’s (customer’s) competitor or through the mediator . a person that in view of his/her duties makes decisions on behalf of the supplier on supply of goods, execution of works, rendering services, has an influence on making such decisions, or is otherwise related to it . article 35. Gaining illegitimate competitive advantages 1. Gaining information associated with production, technology, management, financial or other activity of an economic entity may be declared its trade secret . means of its protection shall be determined by economic entity in accordance with law . unlawful collection of information being a trade secret shall be deemed obtaining of the above information through illegal means . consumers residing in the territory of Ukraine shall have the rights to protection of their rights by the state . individuals may voluntarily unite into public consumer organisations (consumer unions) state control over observance of antimonopoly and competition legislation shall be exercised by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine . if economic entities abuse their monopoly positions in the market, the antimonopoly committee of Ukraine shall be entitled to decide on forced split-up . forced split up shall not apply in the following cases: impossibility of organisational or territorial separation of enterprises or structural units . Article 41. Antimonopoly and competition legislation . entrepreneurs shall be entitled to perform independently any entrepreneurial activity not prohibited by law . government authorities and local governments shall be prohibited to conduct entrepreneurial activity . entrepreneurship in Ukraine shall be conducted in any organisational forms defined by law, at entrepreneur’s discretion . state shall guarantee equal rights and opportunities for employment and use of material and technical, financial, labour, informational, natural and other resources . withdrawal by the state or local government of fixed and operating assets, and other property shall be allowed under Article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine . entrepreneurship in the territory of Ukraine, on its continental shelf and in the exclusive (sea) economic zone by foreign legal entities and individuals shall be established by this Code and other laws of Ukraine . entrepreneurial activity shall be terminated: on entrepreneur’s own initiative; in the event of the license’s expiry . economic activity of an individual or a legal entity registered as a non-profit economic entity shall be governed by the provisions of this Code and other laws regulating entrepreneurship . micro-enterprises shall be: individuals registered in the manner prescribed by law as private entrepreneurs who have an average number of employees . economic entities shall exercise their economic competence on the basis of the right to property, the right of economic management . signs of fictitious nature giving grounds for appealing to the court for termination of a legal entity or termination of activity by an individual entrepreneur . economic entities referred to in Clause 1, Part 2 of this Article shall be entitled to establish their branches, representative offices . an economic entity may be established upon the decision of the owner (owners) of property or the authorised body . economic entities may be created and operated on the basis of a model charter approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . constituent documents shall contain the name, purpose and subject of economic activity, composition and competence of its management bodies . the charter of an economic entity shall contain information on its name, purpose and subject of activity, size and procedure for distributing profits and losses . opening of branches (offices), representative offices without the registration of a legal entity shall not require their state registration . a seal shall not be a mandatory attribute of any document submitted by a economic entity to a government authority or local government . enterprises may be established both for entrepreneurship and non-profit economic activity . enterprises shall operate under their charter unless otherwise established by law . an enterprise with one hundred per cent share of foreign investment in the authorised capital shall be deemed a foreign enterprise . unitary enterprises shall be established by one founder that provides required property . a corporate enterprise shall be commonly established by two or more co-founders . an enterprise may consist of production structural units (production facilities, workshops, departments, divisions, groups, bureaus, laboratories, etc.) enterprise shall be entitled to create branches, representative offices, departments and other separate units . enterprise shall appoint its ultimate beneficial owner (controller) and keep information about it to the state registrar . a general manager of the enterprise, a chief accountant, members of the supervisory board (if any) shall be the officials of this enterprise under the charter . general manager of an enterprise shall act on behalf of the enterprise without a power of attorney . enterprises that use employed labour shall enter into a collective agreement between the owner or the authorised body and personnel . decisions on socio-economic issues related to the enterprise’s activities shall be considered and adopted by its management bodies . property purchased from other economic entities, organisations and individuals under procedure established by law; other sources not prohibited by Ukrainian legislation . relations of an enterprise with other enterprises, organisations, and individuals in all forms of economic activity shall be exercised on the contractual basis . an enterprise may open its representative offices, branches and production facilities outside Ukraine, maintenance of which shall be effected at the expense of the enterprise . an enterprise shall ensure proper and safe working conditions to all employees . enterprises shall be entitled to voluntarily consolidate its economic activity (production, commercial, etc.) enterprises shall conduct their activities according to Articles 62–71 hereof, and other laws . a state-owned unitary enterprise shall be established by a competent government authority . property of a state-owned unitary enterprise shall be owned by the state . management bodies shall be as follows: the general manager appointed (elected) by the entity in charge of state property, which performs the functions of enterprise’s management . procedure for creation, organisation of activity and liquidation of the supervisory board shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the criteria for classifying state-owned unitary enterprises shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine depending on the book value of assets . information about enterprise's activity shall be published on its own web page (website) or on the official website of the entity in charge of state property . a state-owned unitary enterprise shall publish the annual financial reporting along with the auditor's opinion . a person interested in the performance of an economic obligation shall be: a public official, a member of the supervisory board or a representative of a third party . the general manager of an enterprise shall be held liable for the publishing and credibility of the information stipulated by this Article in accordance with the laws of Ukraine . a family member of an official specified in the Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Part shall be deemed a husband (wife), persons living together and having joint household, mutual rights and responsibilities . the scope of this Article shall apply to the economic obligations of state-owned unitary enterprises . a person who is interested in performing an economic obligation shall submit for consideration to the supervisory board of a state-owned unitary enterprise or, in cases provided by law, by the authority . a transfer or lease, other paid use of goods or property, the book value of which exceeds 100 minimum wages based on the minimum wage amount set on 1 January of the year in which the respective economic obligation is performed. within 10 working days from the date of receipt of the information, the supervisory board of a state-owned unitary enterprise shall adopt one of the following decisions . if a person interested in the performance of an economic obligation is a member of the supervision board, he/she shall not vote when deciding to consent . the decision to consent to perform such economic obligation shall be taken by a majority vote of the members who are not interested in performance . economic obligation of interest performed in violation of the procedure provided for in Parts 4–10 of this Article, shall create, change, terminate the rights and obligations of its parties . liability for damage caused to a state-owned unitary enterprise by such economic obligation shall be borne by a person interested in such enterprise . in the event of failure to obtain further approval of an economic obligation, such an obligation may be declared invalid . the charter of a state-owned unitary enterprise may specify additional criteria . a significant economic obligation shall be subject to approval by the supervisory board . it is prohibited to divide the subject of an economic obligation in order to evade the procedure provided for in this Article . state-owned commercial enterprise shall be deemed an economic entity acting under the charter or model charter . the authorised capital of a state-own commercial enterprise is subject to payment before the end of the first year from the date of state registration of such enterprise . a significant economic obligation performed in violation of the procedure provided for in Parts 1–4 of this Article may be declared invalid . a state-owned enterprise, its subsidiaries, and enterprises shall publish a report on the conclusion of an agreement for the purchase of goods, works and services at the expense of enterprises . the report shall include: the name, quantity of goods and place of delivery, type of work, place of their performance or type of services . a state-owned commercial enterprise shall not have the right to transfer its property free of charge to other legal entities or individuals, except for cases envisaged by law . funds received from the sale of immovable property, less the book (residual) value of such property shall be credited to the common fund of the State Budget of Ukraine . state-owned commercial enterprises shall form special (targeted) funds out of profit (income) the procedure for using these funds shall be determined in accordance with the approved financial plan . an official government enterprise shall be established upon the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . official government enterprises shall be legal entities, have accounts in institutions of a state bank, and a stamp with its name on . an official government enterprise shall independently organise production of goods (works, services), and sell them for prices (tariffs) determined under procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . an official government enterprise shall not alienate or otherwise dispose of the property assigned to it which belongs to fixed assets . sources of generating assets shall be as follows: state property transferred to an enterprise pursuant to the decision on its establishment . a communal unitary enterprise shall be established by a competent local government under the regulatory order on the basis of a separate part of communal property . the authority a communal unitary enterprise is subordinated to shall be a representative of the owner – a respective territorial community . the supervisory board of an enterprise shall control and direct the activity of the general manager of the enterprise . authorised capital shall be paid before the end of the first year from the date of state registration of such an enterprise. the annual financial reporting of a communal unitary enterprise may be subject to mandatory audit . criteria for selecting an independent auditor shall be established by a local council . access to such web pages and websites shall be provided 24/7 free of charge . the general manager of a communal unitary enterprise shall be held liable for the publishing and credibility of the information stipulated by this Article in accordance with the laws of Ukraine and the terms of the agreement concluded with him/her . damage caused to the enterprise due to execution of decisions of government authorities or local governments shall be subject to compensation . communal unitary enterprises shall publish on the web portal of the Authorised Body defined by the Law of Ukraine “On public procurement” a report on the conclusion of an agreement for the procurement of goods, works and services at the expense of enterprises . the report shall include: the name, quantity of goods and place of delivery . persons (together or individually) referred to in Paragraphs 2–5 of this Part shall meet at least one of the following criteria: be a party to such an economic obligation or members of the executive body of a legal entity . economic obligations of communal unitary enterprises include alienation or acquisition under one agreement of goods or other property . granting or receiving a loan, other financing on a repayable basis in the amount exceeding 50 minimum wages . the charter of a communal unitary enterprise may provide for a lower threshold for the value of property, works or services or the amount of funds . a person who is interested in performing an economic obligation shall, within three working days from the moment of the emergence of his/her interest . a decision to consent to performing an economic obligation of interest shall be taken by a majority vote of the members of the supervisory board . if the book value of property or services or the amount of funds to be provided, alienated, received or transferred exceeds 10 per cent of the value of assets, the economic obligation shall be considered approved . an economic obligation of interest performed in violation of the procedure for making a decision to consent to its performance shall create, change, and terminate the rights and obligations of its parties . a communal unitary enterprise or the authority it is subordinated to may request that such economic obligation be declared invalid by court . a state share in the authorised capital of an economic company exceeds 50 per cent, its subsidiaries, as well as enterprises, economic companies, shall publish on the web portal of the Authorised Body defined by the Law of Ukraine “On Public Procurement” a report on the conclusion of an agreement for procurement of goods, works and services at the expense of enterprises . the report shall include: the name, quantity of goods and place of delivery, type of work, place of their performance or type of services . a general partnership and a limited partnership shall be memorandum of association . the constituent document of a joint-stock company is the charter . information on the types of shares issued, their face value and the ratio of shares of different types . an economic company acquires the status of a legal entity from the date of its state registration . a company's memorandum of association shall determine the size of each stakeholder's share, the form of their participation in the company’s operation . for general partnerships and limited partnerships it shall contain the names of members who bear additional responsibility for the obligations of the company . an economic company may open bank accounts, as well as enter into agreements only after its state registration . agreements concluded by the founders before the date of its registration shall be recognised as concluded with the company . it is prohibited to use budget funds for the generation of the authorised (contributed) capital of a company, property of state-owned (communal) enterprises . economic companies in the authorised capital of which more than 50 per cent of shares (equities) directly or indirectly belong to the state, shall draw up and implement an annual financial plan for each subsequent year . financial plans of a gas transmission system operator and a transmission company shall not be approved under Article 75 hereof . annual financial reporting (including consolidated one) of an economic company in the authorised capital of which more than 50 per cent of shares (equities) belong to a territorial community, may be subject to mandatory audit . criteria for classifying companies as those whose financial reporting is subject to audit by an independent auditor shall be determined by local council . access to the web pages and websites referred to in this Article shall be 24/7 free of charge . the charter of an economic company, as well as previous versions, shall be published . curriculum vitae (including job review) of the general manager and members of the executive body . annual financial reporting (including consolidated one) must be published along with an auditor’s opinion . co-operatives as voluntary associations of individuals for joint addressing of economic, social and other issues can be created in different industries (industrial, consumer, housing ones, etc.) a production co- cooperative shall be a voluntary association of individuals on a membership basis for the purpose of joint production or other economic activities . the number of members of a production co-operative may not be less than 3 persons . individuals who have reached 16 years of age and comply with its requirements, take property and labour participation in the activities of the co- cooperative may be members . the decision to establish a co-op shall be adopted by its constituent assembly . members may be terminated in the following cases: voluntary withdrawal from a coop; termination of labour participation . a production co-operative shall be the owner of buildings, structures, property contributions of its members, products manufactured by it, income received from its sale and other activities provided for by its charter . co-operative's members may transfer the right to use a land plot belonging to them as a share contribution in accordance with the procedure established by land legislation . indivisible fund shall be formed out of the admission fees and property . of the co-op, except for land plots . the general meeting of co-operative’s members shall be held annually after the end of the financial year . the management board of a production cooperative shall be established in a cooperative that has at least ten members . decision on admission of new members and termination of membership shall be made by a majority vote . the management board of a production co-operative may hire an executive director for operational management of the enterprise’s activities . the executive director shall conduct his/her activities under a contract concluded with him/her by the management . of the co-op's management board . a supervisory board may be established to monitor the activities of the executive director of a co-operative enterprise . an audit commission (auditor) shall be elected by the general meeting . a production cooperative shall sell its products and provide services at prices and tariffs set by it . a production co-operative shall be liable for its obligations with all its property . the procedure for using funds in foreign currency shall be established by law . property relations of a member with a co-op in the event of termination are regulated by civil legislation . liquidation of a production co-operative shall be conducted by the liquidation commission appointed by the general meeting of co-op’s members . disposal of land plots of coop that is being liquidated shall be in accordance with the procedure and conditions provided by land legislation . consumer co-operation in Ukraine shall be deemed a system of self-governing organisations of individuals . legal basis of organisation and activity of consumer co-operation shall be determined by law . enterprises of citizens’ associations, religious organisations shall be deemed a unitary enterprise based on the property of a citizens’ association, a religious organisation . restrictions on the establishment and operation of certain types of enterprises . a stakeholder of a private enterprise may request for notarisation of the transaction, the subject of which is the share of such stakeholder in the authorised capital of the enterprise . an enterprise established in accordance with the requirements of this Code shall acquire the status of an enterprise with foreign investment from the date of crediting the foreign investment to its balance sheet. a foreign enterprise is a unitary or corporate enterprise established under the legislation of Ukraine, operating exclusively on the basis of property of foreigners or foreign legal entities . an enterprise association is an economic organisation made of two or more enterprises in order to coordinate their production, scientific and other activities . enterprises with foreign investment may establish branches and representative offices in the territory of Ukraine and abroad . enterprises associations may be established as economic associations or as state or communal economic associations . enterprises associations shall operate on the basis of a memorandum of association and/or the charter approved by their founders . the charter of the association shall state that it is an economic association . a concern shall be deemed a statutory enterprise association and other organisations . enterprises – stakeholders of an enterprise association – shall retain the status of a legal entity . an enterprise may also enjoy other rights provided for by the memorandum of association or the charter of an economic association . an enterprise that is a stakeholder of a state or communal economic association shall not have the right to withdraw from it without the consent of an association . economic associations shall have the highest management bodies (general meeting of stakeholders) and form the executive bodies provided for by the charter of an economic association. management of the current activities of an enterprise association may be entrusted to the administration of one of the enterprises on the terms provided by the constituent documents of the association. an economic association shall be entitled to establish unitary enterprises, branches, representative offices . an enterprise association shall not be held liable for the obligations of its stakeholders . withdrawal of an enterprise from a state (communal) economic association occurs due to its reorganisation or liquidation . a holding company shall be deemed a public joint-stock company that owns, uses and disposes of holding corporate blocks of shares (equities) of two or more corporate enterprises . the law may define other forms of consolidating interests of enterprises (unions, associations of entrepreneurs, etc.) an individual entrepreneur may be declared bankrupt by court under the requirements of this Code and other laws . he/she conducts economic activities subject to state registration as an entrepreneur without the status of a legal entity in accordance with Article 58 hereof . citizens permanently residing in the territory of Ukraine may unite in credit unions . a credit union shall acquire the status of a legal entity from the date of its state registration . government authorities, state-owned and communal enterprises, institutions, organisations that are fully or partially funded from the budget shall not be founders and/or members . a charitable organisation shall be entitled to conduct non-profit economic activity . the right to property is the basic property right in the economic sector . property used in economic activities may be jointly owned by two or more owners . organisational and constituent powers of a property owner are defined by law . a property owner is entitled to establish economic organisations or conduct economic activities in other organisational and legal forms of economic activities not prohibited by law . the right of economic management is a real right of an economic entity that owns, uses and disposes of property assigned to it . state-owned and communal enterprises may be merged into state (communal) economic associations provided for by this Code . a business entity that conducts economic activity under the right of economic management shall be entitled to protect its property rights from a property owner, too . authorised entity managing state property used in the process of natural gas transportation and/or storage may not refuse financing . under this Code, property shall be deemed a set of items and other valuables ?? (including intangible assets) Depending on the economic form, which the property acquires in the course of economic activity, property values ??shall belong to fixed assets, working capital, funds, and goods . the funds in the property of economic entities shall be money in national and foreign currency, intended for the implementation of trade relations . state property in the economic sector shall include unified assets of state-owned enterprises . management of state property shall be effected by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and authorised central and local executive bodies . the transfer of economic facilities from state to communal property shall take place in the manner prescribed by law . state property used in the process of electricity transmission and transportation and/or storage of natural gas shall be assigned under the right of economic management to economic entities . 100 per cent corporate rights in the authorised capital of which belong to the state . Article 142. Profit (income) of an economic entity shall be an indicator of the financial outcome of its economic activity . the right to property subject to state registration shall arise from the date of registration . legal regulation of the property of an economic entity based on state (communal) property may be changed by privatising the property . property of unified assets of a state-owned (municipal) enterprise may be alienated for the benefit of individuals or non-state legal entities . every citizen of Ukraine, except in cases established by law, shall be entitled to acquire state property in the process of privatisation . property rights of economic entities shall be protected by law . land is fundamental national wealth that is under special protection of the state . the property right for the land shall be acquired and exercised by citizens, legal entities and the state under the Land Code of Ukraine . natural resources may be provided to economic entities only in the cases and in the manner prescribed by law . economic entities shall use natural resources in economic activity under procedure for special or general management of natural resources . procedure for granting land ownership shall be defined exclusively by law, taking into account the need to determine guarantees for the efficient use of land . use natural resources in accordance with the purpose specified in their provision (acquisition) for use in economic activities . conduct economic activities without violating the rights of other owners and users of natural resources . intellectual property in the economic sector shall be as follows: inventions and utility models; industrial designs; plant varieties and animal breeds . economic entities shall have the right of prior use of an invention, utility model or industrial design under the terms provided for in the civil code of Ukraine . intellectual property rights to an invention may be transferred to the authorised capital of an economic entity as a contribution . rules of this Article shall also apply in connection with the exercise of rights to plant varieties and animal breeds in economic activities . only those economic entities that produce goods (provide services) in respect of which the state registration of a respective geographical indication has been made shall be entitled to use a geographical indication . products of foreign origin or, in cases prescribed by law, their packaging shall contain information on the country of origin . equity, debt and other securities may be issued and circulated in Ukraine . treasury bills, savings (deposit) certificates, promissory notes, certificates of real estate transaction fund (RETF certificates) may be used in economic activities in cases provided by law . securities (or their forms) shall be produced only at state-owned enterprises . economic entities may purchase shares and other securities specified in this Code . securities shall be paid by economic entities in hryvnias, unless otherwise provided by law . corporate rights are rights of a person whose share is determined in the authorised capital (property) of an economic organisation . relations arising from the management of state corporate rights shall be governed by the Law of Ukraine "On Management of State Property", other laws of Ukraine and regulatory acts . property and economic obligations shall be deemed civil obligations arising between the parties to economic relations in the course of economic activity . organisational obligations may arise between an economic entity and an entity of organisational and economic powers . an entitled party shall have the right to require an obligated party to perform its obligation . economic entities shall be entitled to conduct joint economic activities to achieve a common goal, without establishing a single economic entity . Article 177. social and communal obligations of economic entities . an economic entity that evades the fulfillment of a public obligation for no good reason shall reimburse the other party for the damages caused by it . entering into an economic agreement shall be binding for the parties given is based on a state order, performance of which shall be a responsibility of an economic entity . economic entities that provide consumers with electricity, communications, rail and other modes of transport shall also enter into agreements with all consumers of their products (services) an economic agreement shall be deemed concluded provided the parties have agreed on all its essential terms . the parties shall in any case agree on its subject, price and term . an agreement may provide for extra charges to the established price for products of higher quality . an economic agreement shall be drafted as a single document signed by the parties . it may be concluded in a streamlined manner, that is by exchanging letters, faxes, telegrams . a party that has received a draft agreement and has agreed with its terms shall draw up an agreement under the requirements of Part 1 of this Article . economic entities shall conclude principal economic agreement within a certain period of time, but no later than one year from the date of concluding the preliminary agreement . relations arising from the conclusion of preliminary agreements shall be governed by the Civil Code of Ukraine with due account of specific aspects provided by this Code . agreements under state order shall be concluded between economic entities defined by law – contractors of the state order and state customers . evasion from concluding a contract under state order shall be a violation of economic legislation and shall entail liability under this Code and other laws . entering into economic agreements based on free act and deed of the parties may be effected in a streamlined manner or in the form of a single document . a contractor of the state order may be released from the obligation to conclude a state contract provided it is recognised invalid by court . disputes arising from the conclusion of economic agreements under state order shall be considered by court . making amendments and terminating economic agreements unilaterally shall be prohibited . prices in foreign trade agreements (contracts) may be fixed in foreign currency by agreement . economic entities shall apply free and state-regulated prices in their activities . Article 190. free pricing shall be applied to all types of products (works, services) state regulated prices shall be introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . an obligated party shall have the right to fulfill its obligation ahead of time, unless otherwise provided for by law, other regulatory acts or an agreement . performance of an economic obligation may be entrusted in whole or in part to a third party, which is not a party to the obligation . a deed of assignment of rights to another entity shall be deemed valid from the date of receipt of the notification by an obligated party . an obligation shall be performed jointly and severally in cases stipulated by law, an economic agreement, or a place determined by the obligation's subject . obligations of the parties to economic relations shall be fixed and payable in hryvnias . obligations of economic entities belonging to the state sector of the economy may be secured by a state guarantee . guarantee shall be deemed a specific means of securing the fulfillment of economic obligations by written confirmation (letter of guarantee) an obligation under the bank guarantee shall be fulfilled only at the written request of an entitled party . an obligated party shall have no right to raise objections to a guarantor . respective provisions of the civil code of Ukraine shall apply to the relations of a bank guarantee . an economic obligation shall be terminated by crediting a counter homogeneous claim . it is prohibited to credit claims in respect of which the statute of limitations shall be applied . an obligation shall arise again should this merger by terminated . the terms, procedure and consequences of declaring economic entities bankrupt are defined by this Code and other laws . an economic obligation may be terminated by the parties under the regulations prescribed by Article 188 hereof . a bankruptcy entity shall only be a business entity . official government enterprises shall not be declared bankrupt . creditors of insolvent debtors shall be deemed legal entities or individuals . should two or more creditors have monetary claims against one debtor at the same time, they shall establish a meeting (committee) of creditors . out-of-court recovery of state-owned enterprises shall be conducted with budget funds . reorganisation of a legal entity – a debtor by a property owner (authorised body) transfer of the debtor’s property to the authorised capital shall be allowed only in cases and under procedure established by law . procedures for insolvent debtors provided for in this Code shall not apply to state-owned enterprises . in cases provided for by law, bankruptcy proceedings shall not be applied to public utility companies. a business entity – a debtor, its founders (stakeholders), a property owner, as well as other individuals shall be legally liable for violation of bankruptcy law . parties to economic relations shall bear economic and legal liability for offences in economic activities by applying economic sanctions to offenders . an injured party shall be entitled to compensation for damages, regardless of whether there is a respective reservation in the agreement . economic sanctions shall be deemed measures of influence on an offender in the area of economic activities . an economic entity shall bear economic and legal liability unless it proves that proper performance of the obligation was impossible due to force majeure . a debtor, which has delayed performance of an economic obligation shall be liable to a creditor (creditors) for damages caused by the delay and for the impossibility of performance, which accidentally arose after the delay . the debtor shall not be deemed to have overdue performance of the obligation until it can be performed due to the creditor's delay. the court may reduce the amount of liability or release a defendant from liability. a creditor’s delay shall provide a debtor the right to compensation for damages caused by the delay . parties to economic relations, which have violated the property rights or legitimate interests of other entities shall restore them before a claim or appeal is submitted to the court . claims shall be considered within one month from the date of their receipt . a party to economic relations, which has violated an economic obligation, shall compensate for losses caused due to this to the entity whose rights or legitimate interests have been violated . losses shall be deemed expenses incurred by an entitled party, loss or damage to its property, lost profit . the law may establish limited liability for non-performance or improper performance of obligations . unless otherwise provided by law or agreement, the prices that existed at the place of performance of the obligation shall be taken into account . a party that has violated its obligation or knows for sure that it will violate it when it is due, shall immediately notify the other party . the court may grant a claim for damages, taking into account the prices valid on the day of the court’s decision . in the event of non-fulfillment of the obligation to perform a certain work, an entitled party shall have the right to perform this work independently or entrust its performance to third parties . a party to economic relations, which has compensated for losses, shall be entitled to recover losses from third parties by way of recourse . the amount of losses shall be calculated in the currency in which settlements have been made, unless otherwise provided for by law . penalties shall be deemed economic sanctions in the form of a sum of money (penalty, fine, penalty fee) a party to economic relations shall pay in case of violation of the rules of economic activity . the law may determine the amount of penalties for certain types of obligations . penalties for violation of monetary obligations shall be established as interest . if penalties are imposed for non-performance or improper performance of an obligation, the losses shall be compensated in the part these sanctions are not applied to . penalties for non-performance or improper performance of an economic obligation shall not release a debtor from fulfillment an obligation in kind . only those operational and economic sanctions the application of which is provided for in the agreement may be applied . operational and economic sanctions shall be applied by a party that has suffered from the offence, out-of-court and without preliminary submission of a claim to the violator of an obligation . for violation of the rules of economic activity prescribed by legislative acts, administrative sanctions may be applied to economic entities by government authorities or local governments . an economic entity shall be charged a fine in cases and under procedure provided for by law . an administrative and economic fine shall be deemed a sum of money paid to the respective budget . the procedure for determining the amount of damage to the economy of Ukraine and applying the measures specified by law shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . export and import operations of economic entities shall be terminated under the terms and procedure provided for by law . it is prohibited to conduct any economic activity that threatens the life and health of people or poses an increased danger to the environment . an administrative and economic sanction may be applied to an economic entity in the form of its liquidation by a court decision . administrative and economic sanctions may be applied to an economic entity within six months from the date of detection of a violation . the scope of this Article shall not apply to penalties, the amount and procedure for collecting of which are determined by the tax and customs authorities . antimonopoly and competition legislation shall be collected by court . profits illegally obtained by economic entities due to violation of Articles 29, 30 and 32 hereof shall be levied by a court decision to the State Budget of Ukraine . parties concerned may apply to the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine or its territorial branches with an application for seizure of goods with illegal markings or copies of products of another economic entity . procedure for using seized goods shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . specific aspects of legal regulation of economic relations shall be determined depending on the area of social production in which these relations develop . Article 259. Type of economic activity arises in the event of consolidating resources . national classifiers shall be an integral part of the National Classification System . economic and trade activities shall be deemed an activity conducted by economic entities in the field of commodity circulation . the turnover of industrial and technical products and consumer goods in the economic sector will be governed by this Code and other legislative acts adopted under it. economic activities may be conducted by economic entities in the following forms: material and technical supply and sale; energy supply; procurement; wholesale trade; retail trade and public catering; sale and lease of production means . basic requirements for the conclusion and execution of supply agreements shall be defined by this Code and other legislative acts . a supply agreement may be concluded for one year, for a period of more than one year (long-term agreement), or for another period determined by agreement of the parties . if the parties provide for the delivery of goods in separate batches, the term (period) of delivery of industrial and technical products shall normally be a quarter, as for consumer goods, it is a month . a supplier shall certify the quality of the delivered goods with the appropriate accompanying document, unless otherwise provided for in the agreement . in the event of delivery of goods of lower quality than required by the standard, technical specifications (if any) or a sample (standard), a buyer shall be entitled to refuse to accept and pay for the goods . a supplier (manufacturer) shall dispose of the goods within ten days, and for perishable goods within 24 hours from the date of receipt of a buyer's (consignee's) notification of the refusal of goods . the terms and procedure for determining by a buyers the defects of the delivered goods shall be determined by the legislation in accordance with this Code . a supplier (manufacturer) shall eliminate defects in the product identified during the guaranteed period, or to replace the goods . claims arising from the delivery of goods of improper quality may be filed within six months from the date of identification by a buyer of defects . goods shall be delivered complete in accordance with the requirements of standards, technical specifications (if any) or price lists . state procurement of agricultural products shall be effected under contractual agreements . contractual agreements shall provide for types of products (range), maximum permissible concentration of harmful substances in products . non-standard perishable products suitable for consumption in fresh or processed form shall be accepted by a contractor at prices and on the terms agreed by the parties . a contractor shall accept agricultural products directly from a manufacturer . the remaining products shall be accepted at reception points defined by the agreement . a power supply company shall supply electric energy, steam, hot and superheated water . specific features of the supply of electric power to consumers and the requirements for an electric power supply agreement shall be established by the Law of Ukraine "On the Electric Power Market" power supply companies of other forms of ownership, except for state-owned and communal ones, may participate in providing power to any consumers . the total amount of power to be supplied shall be determined by agreement of the parties . a commodity exchange provides services in concluding exchange transactions, identifying supply and demand for goods, commodity prices, studying, streamlining trade turnover and facilitating related trading operations . the legal terms for the establishment and operation of commodity exchanges shall be determined by this Code, laws and other regulatory acts adopted under it . a commodity exchange shall not pursue the purpose of making a profit . it shall operate on the principles of equality of the parties to exchange trading . the rules of exchange trading shall be approved by the general meeting of exchange members . under a lease agreement, one party (a lessor) shall transfer property for conducting economic activities to the other party for a fee . lease of structural units of state-owned and communal enterprises shall not violate the production and economic integrity, and technological unity of this enterprise . the lease of a leased property shall be effected at the replacement cost, with due account of its indexation . lessees have a pre-emptive right over other economic entities to extend the term of a lease agreement . a lessee may be obliged to use the leased property for its intended purpose . the amount of lease payment may be changed by agreement of the parties . state and communal property lessors shall be as follows: 1) the state property fund of Ukraine, its regional branches . a lessee shall be entitled to sublease certain leased property, unless otherwise provided for by law or a lease agreement . lease agreement shall be terminated in the following cases: the term of the agreement has expired; purchase (privatisation), liquidation of the lessee’s economic entity; loss (destruction) of leased-out unified assets . a lease agreement may be terminated prematurely on the grounds provided for by the Civil Code of Ukraine . under an exchange (barter) agreement, either party shall transfer ownership, full-fledged economic management or operational management of a certain product to the other party in exchange for another product . a party to the agreement shall be deemed a seller of the goods it transfers in exchange . a commodity warehouse shall be an organisation that stores goods and provides storage-related services . commercial mediation (agency activity) shall mean an entrepreneurial activity . a commercial agent shall not enter into agreements on behalf of a person it represents in personal interests . the law may establish restrictions or prohibitions on the implementation of commercial intermediation in certain economic sectors . an agreement concluded on behalf of an entity represented by a commercial agent shall be considered approved by this entity . in the event of monopoly agency relations, an agent shall not conduct commercial mediation for other entities within the limits provided for in the agency agreement . commercial agent shall not transfer confidential information obtained from an entity it represents without the consent of this entity . the parties to an agency agreement may conclude a separate agreement on the protection of confidential information of an entity represented by a commercial agent . commercial agents shall be fully liable for damage caused due to failure to perform or improper performance of their duties . commercial mediation (agency activities) in the economic sector shall be governed by this Code . the parties to cargo transportation relations shall be carriers, consignors and consignees . transport of explosives, weapons, toxic, flammable, radioactive and other dangerous substances . a cargo transportation agreement shall be concluded in writing . a consignor and a carrier may conclude a long-term agreement . the parties may also provide in the agreement for other conditions of transportation . a consignor shall be entitled to receive back the cargo delivered for transportation before it is shipped, to change a cargo consignee specified in a transport document . a carrier’s liability for the safety of cargo shall be terminated from the moment it is delivered to a consignor at the point of destination . in the event of an interruption or termination of cargo transportation due to circumstances beyond the carrier's control . transportation shall be carried out by two or more carriers and different modes of transport . a carrier shall deliver the cargo to its point of destination within the time period stipulated by the transport codes, charters or regulations . the amount of fines levied on carriers for overdue delivery of cargo shall be defined in accordance with law . prior to filing a claim to a carrier, one can first file a complaint against it . complaints in respect of payment of fines and bonuses shall be filed within forty-five days . under a freight forwarding agreement, one party shall perform or organise the performance of services related to cargo transportation . a freight forwarding agreement may stipulate the provision of additional services required for the delivery of cargo . construction of industrial and other facilities, preparation of construction sites, construction equipment works shall be conducted under contracting terms . the general terms and conditions of contracting agreements shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code of Ukraine . a major construction contracting agreement may be concluded by a customer with one contractor or with two or more contractors . a contractor shall on its own and by its own means upon an order of the other party (a customer) construct and commission to the customer within the established time period specified in the agreement . a customer may enter into a contracting agreement for the installation of equipment with a general contractor or with an equipment supplier . the parties shall determine the cost of work (agreement’s value) or the method of it’s determining . changes to a fixed estimate can be made exclusively by agreement of the parties . a contractor shall not demand an increase in a fixed estimate . in the event of a significant increase in the cost of supplies and equipment . the statute of limitations for claims arising from improper quality of work is determined from the date of acceptance of the work by a customer . a contractor shall be held liable for the deficiencies of a design, including those identified during its implementation and operation of the facility built under this design . in the event of detection of design’s deficiencies, a contracting agreement for conducting design and survey works shall alter the design free of charge . a claim for compensation for losses to a customer caused by design’s deficiencies may be filed within ten years . Article 325. Innovative activity in the economic sector shall be deemed the activity of the parties to economic relations . innovative activity shall involve the investing in scientific research and inventions . Investing in the reproduction of fixed assets and the growth of inventories shall be effected as capital investment . the state shall govern innovative activities by definition of innovative activities as a necessary component of investment and structural and sectoral policy . agreements for the creation and transfer of scientific and technical products are subject to mandatory state expert review . financial activities of economic entities shall include monetary and other financial intermediation, insurance, and auxiliary activities in the area of finance and insurance . economic insurance shall be deemed an activity aimed at covering long-term and short-term risks . banks shall be deemed financial institutions whose functions are to attract funds of individuals and legal entities to deposits . banks can operate as universal or specialised ones – savings, investment, mortgage, and settlement (clearing) banks . an economic entity shall not use the word "bank" in its name without registering this entity as a bank with the National Bank of Ukraine . banks shall be entitled to create banking associations, the types of which shall be determined by law . financial intermediation shall be conducted by banks as banking operations . deposit operations consist in attracting funds to deposits and placing savings (deposit) certificates . deposits shall be formed out of funds in cash or non-cash form, in hryvnias or foreign currency . bank settlement operations shall be aimed at providing mutual settlements . accounts of a legal entity that is a bank customer shall be opened in banking institutions . legal entities and individual entrepreneurs shall open accounts for storing funds in any banks of Ukraine of their choice . economic entities allocated funds for targeted use from the State Budget of Ukraine or local budgets shall have accounts opened in accordance with law . international settlement operations shall be conducted in respect of monetary claims and obligations arising in the course of foreign economic activity . international settlements shall be governed by international law, banking customs and rules . procedure for settlements and maintaining bank accounts shall be established by agreements concluded by authorised banks . to obtain a bank loan, a borrower must provide the bank with the following documents . a bank shall provide a loan to a borrower in the presence of a guarantee . the provision of interest-free loans shall be prohibited, except in cases stipulated by law . banks shall conduct loan operations within the limits of lending resources they generate . banks shall be entitled to conclude a factoring agreement (financing for assignment of the right of monetary claim against a third party) insurants shall conduct insurance activities subject to obtaining a license for the right to provide a certain type of insurance . insurance is the activity of designated state organisations and economic entities (insurants) under this Code, policyholders are parties to economic relations who have concluded insurance contracts with insurants . the National Bank of Ukraine shall be entitled to establish additional requirements for insurance contracts . insurance entities, types of compulsory insurance, as well as general terms for insurance implementation shall be defined . a securities trader who directly or indirectly owns the property of another trader, the value of which exceeds the amount established by law . to ensure the functioning of the securities market, a stock exchange shall be established . audit activity shall be deemed an independent professional activity of auditors and audit entities registered in the Register of Auditors and Audit Entities . financial reporting audit shall be conducted by audit entities registered in the Register of Auditors and Audit Entities . state financial audit shall consist in checking and analysing the actual state of affairs regarding the legal and effective use of state or communal funds and property . a rightholder grants a user for a certain or indefinite period the right to use in the user's economic activities a set of rights belonging to the rightholder . a commercial concession agreement must be concluded in writing as a single document . failure to comply with this requirement shall entail the invalidity of the agreement . a commercial concession agreement may provide for restrictions on the rights of the parties under this agreement . a rightholder may not grant other persons similar sets of rights for their use in the territory assigned to a user or to refrain from their own similar activities in this territory . restrictions may be declared invalid provided these conditions contradict the law . a rightholder shall bear subsidiary liability for claims made to a user of a commercial concession . commercial concession agreements may be amended in accordance with the provisions established by Article 188 hereof . the rightholder may withdraw from the agreement at any time, notifying the other party six months in advance . foreign economic activity of economic entities shall be deemed an economic activity that requires crossing the customs border of Ukraine by property and/or man power . the state shall guarantee equal protection for all foreign economic activities entities . foreign economic operation entities shall include state customers in the defence sector . quota mode for foreign economic operations shall be introduced in cases stipulated by law . foreign economic activity entities shall be entitled to conclude any foreign economic agreements (contracts) a foreign economic agreement (contract) may be declared invalid by court provided it does not meet the requirements of the laws of Ukraine . foreign economic activity entities shall be entitled to open any foreign currency accounts not prohibited by law in banking institutions located in the territory of other states . the state shall exercise customs regulation of foreign economic activities . customs control in special (free) economic zones shall be regulated by separate laws and international treaties . the procedure for opening foreign currency accounts in banking institutions in the territory of other states shall be regulated by the legislation of the respective state . opening of a foreign currency account in a banking institution outside Ukraine shall be conducted in co-ordination with the State Property Fund of Ukraine . foreign economic activity entities shall independently manage foreign currency earnings from their operations . foreign investors may make investments in the territory of Ukraine in foreign currency recognised as convertible by the National Bank of Ukraine . relations arising in connection with the acquisition by a foreign investor of property rights to land and other natural resources in Ukraine shall be governed by the law on foreign economic activity and other laws . foreign investment shall be evaluated in foreign convertible currency and in hryvnias . relations on taxation of foreign investors and enterprises with foreign investments shall be governed by the tax legislation of Ukraine . specific aspects of creating banking, insurance and other financial institutions with the participation of a foreign investor shall be determined by the respective laws . foreign investments in Ukraine shall not be subject to nationalisation . foreign investors shall be entitled to demand compensation for losses caused to them by illegal actions or inaction of government authorities, local governments, and their officials . income of a foreign investor or other funds received in hryvnias or foreign currency from investments may be reinvested in Ukraine . a foreign investor shall be entitled to return its investment no later than six months after the termination of the investment activity in the territory of Ukraine . relations arising from foreign investment in Ukraine shall be governed by this Code, the law on the foreign investment, other legislative acts and current international treaties . special (free) economic zones of various functional types may be created in the territory of Ukraine . individual economic zones may combine the functions inherent in different types of special economic zones . the state shall guarantee economic entities of the special economic zone the right to export profits and investments outside this zone . the exclusive (sea) economic zone of Ukraine shall make up to two hundred nautical miles . the state shall have an exclusive right to create artificial islands, installations and structures . communication across the state border of Ukraine in certain areas may be restricted . only non-commercial (non-profit) economic activities shall be conducted in the Armed Forces of Ukraine . the procedure for conducting economic activities in a state of emergency, an environmental emergency shall be established by law . economic activity in the territories of the nature reserve fund of Ukraine, resort, health-improving, recreational and other territories and sites classified by law as specially protected ones . economic activity under a state of emergency may be conducted with due account of the restrictions and obligations established by the Decree of the president of Ukraine . the introduction of special economic modes that are not provided for in this Code, which establish restrictions on the rights of economic entities, shall not be allowed . enact that the Economic Code of Ukraine shall apply to the economic relations that have arisen after the effective date of its provisions in accordance with this Section . the provisions of the economic code of Ukraine regarding liability for violations specified in Paragraph 1 of this Clause shall apply provided they mitigate liability for these violations . if a borrower fails to perform its monetary obligation during the period of lockdown introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (COVID-19), the terms defined in Articles 232, 269, 322, 324 hereof shall be extended for the duration of such lockdown . in case of default, the borrower shall be released from the obligation to pay a penalty, fine, penalty fee in favour of a creditor (lender)