this Law determines state policy on the development of the grain market in Ukraine . it is aimed at creating legal, economic and organisational conditions for the competitive production of grain and the formation of an internal grain market . grain production shall mean the agricultural producers’ activity related to grain cultivation . grain shall mean fruits of cereals, legumes and oil crops used for food, seed, fodder and industrial purposes . grain (pledged grain) register shall mean a system for recording information on grain accepted for storage in certain amount and for a certain period by grain storage facilities . a grain storage facility failure shall mean inability to fulfil its obligations under warehouse documents for grain . grain market shall mean a system of goods-money relations between its participants . warehouse documents for grain shall mean documents of title issued by grain storage facilities to a grain owner . this Law shall apply to all grain market participants in the ukraine . the legislation of Ukraine on grain and grain market is based on the constitution of Ukraine . grain market participants shall include: grain production entities; grain storage entities; accredited exchanges; other business entities operating on the grain market . the main principles of the state policy on grain market regulation shall be: ensuring the state’s domestic demand for food, seed, coarse and industrial grain . grain market participants shall be guaranteed the right to freely dispose of their own grain supplies and grain processing products . grain storage entities shall be liable under the law for the completeness and accuracy of the data specified in the declaration . information on grain owners shall not be disclosed when declaring grain . grain and grain processing products must comply with state standards and other regulatory documents . the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of oversight (supervision) in the agro-industrial complex shall be responsible for state supervision over grain quality . grain owners shall be entitled to enter into grain warehouse storage agreements . grain storage facility must take all measures provided for by this Law, regulatory acts, and the grain warehouse storage agreement to ensure the safety of grain delivered to it for storage . grain shall be issued to the holder of a warehouse document for grain in exchange for warehouse documents issued for such grain . grain storage facility shall be obliged to store grain until the depositor submits a demand for its return . grain storage fee and deadlines for payment thereof shall be provided in the grain warehouse storage agreement . the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall set the maximum fee (tariff) for storing grain purchased for the state budget funds . grain depositor shall be obliged to collect the grain at the grain storage facility . grain storage facilities shall be liable for the loss, shortage or damage to the grain accepted for storage in the manner provided for by law . system of guaranteeing the fulfilment of obligations under warehouse documents for grain shall be formed by the activities of grain market participants . grain storage facilities shall be obliged to return the grain at the first request of the warehouse document holder . a grain storage facility shall issue one of the following documents: regular warehouse certificate; warehouse receipt . warehouse documents for grain shall be issued no later than one (1) business day upon the grain transfer for storage . grain accepted for storage under a regular or double warehouse certificate may be the subject of a pledge . a grain storage facility shall be obliged to insure the grain against the risks of accidental loss or damage . relations arising out of the circulation of warehouse documents shall be governed by this Law . double warehouse certificate for grain must contain the title/name and location/residence of the legal entity/individual that/who granted the loan . the loan term should not exceed the grain storage period . warehouse and pledge certificates may be transferred together or separately by handover notes (endorsements) regular warehouse certificates shall be issued to the bearer . grain storage facility must issue a warehouse receipt to confirm grain acceptance for storage . a document not complying with the requirements of this article shall not be a regular warehouse certificate . grain stored under regular warehouse certificates shall be pledged by transferring a certificate to the pledger . grain storage facilities shall maintain a register of warehouse documents for grain . the Guarantee Fund shall have an independent balance sheet, as well as current and other bank accounts . key targets of the guarantee fund shall include: minimisation of risks of grain market participants . guaranteeing the protection of rights of warehouse documents for grain holders in case of non-fulfilment of obligations by grain storage facilities being members (temporary members) of the Guarantee Fund . key functions of the guarantee fund shall include: ensuring the accumulation of financial resources intended to reimburse the grain value . the Guarantee fund shall not be entitled to any actions other than those provided for by law . the Guarantee Fund’s Administration Board shall determine the grain value reimbursement amount annually, by 30 July . the price approved in such a way cannot be changed until the beginning of the next calendar year . exclusive grounds for refusal to reimburse: members of the management bodies and/or its owners (shareholders) if the grain unit price determined in accordance with part 2 hereof is higher than the market prices for grain in the area where the insolvent grain storage facility’s granary is located, the Guarantee Fund shall be entitled to deviate from the procedure for reimbursing the holder of warehouse documents for grain . the guarantee fund shall inspect its members (temporary members) to confirm the failure of a grain storage facilities and the timeliness of contribution payments . the Guarantee Fund shall be obliged to comply with the requirements of the law on commercial secrecy regarding the information that became known to it in the course of its operation . the guarantee fund shall be entitled to apply the following enforcement actions to its members (temporary members) the guarantee fund shall be deemed to be established from the date of its state registration as a legal entity . grain storage facilities registered at the time of the Guarantee Fund establishment shall become members . the amount of the membership fee shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . non-compliance of the applicant’s granary with the mandatory requirements . the applicant's admission to the temporary members of the Guarantee Fund was denied . temporary participant shall be deemed included unless within three (3) years upon the grain storage facility acceptance . member (temporary member) shall be obliged to properly fulfil their obligations to depositors . grain storage facilities shall be transferred to the category of temporary participants of the Guarantee Fund for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days . a member (temporary member) shall be obliged to notify all holders of warehouse documents for grain of its/his/her exclusion . the exclusion from the temporary membership of the guarantee fund shall mean the expulsion from the membership of guarantee fund . members (temporary members) of the Guarantee Fund shall be obliged to place information about their participation in the system of guaranteeing the fulfilment of obligations under warehouse documents for grain . information on amendments and changes to the Register of Guarantee Fund Members (Temporary Members) shall be additionally published in the official printed publications of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . members (temporary members) of the Guarantee Fund shall be entitled to challenge the deeds if they are adopted contrary to the law . the sources of guarantee fund's formation of property and funds shall include: membership fees of temporary members . the funds of the Guarantee Fund must cover at least 10 and not more than 20 per cent of the total value of grain under the warehouse documents for grain . grain storage facilities being members (temporary members) of the guarantee fund shall cease paying regular contributions . the amount of contributions shall be determined by the general meeting of Guarantee Fund members . failure to pay the contributions to the Guarantee Fund shall be the grounds for the transfer of a grain storage facility to the category of temporary participants . the guarantee fund’s administration board shall approve the Rules of procedure of the Guarantee Fond’s Administration Board . the Administration Board of the Guarantee Fund shall consist of three persons appointed by the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine . the general meeting of the guarantee fund members shall be a collegial management body . decisions on other issues falling within its competence in accordance with this Law . decision of the general meeting of the Guarantee Fund members shall be binding on other management bodies of the guarantee fund and all its members (temporary members) the directorate powers, staff, and qualification requirements for its employees shall be approved . the director shall: manage the day-to-day operation of the guaranteed; manage the guarantee Fund directorate; appoint and dismiss Guarantee Fund directors . the Audit Committee shall be the body supervising the operation of the Guarantee Fund . the audit committee's competence shall include: supervision over the guarantee fund's and/or its management bodies' compliance with this Law and other regulatory acts . Article 62. Termination of Guarantee Fund for the Fulfilment of Obligations under Warehouse Documents for Grain . export and import of grain and grain processing products under international treaties shall be funded out of the state budget . Section XII LIABILITY FOR BREACH OF THE LAW Legal entities and individuals guilty of breaching this Law shall be liable in accordance with the law. Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall prepare and submit proposals on amendments to laws of Ukraine implied by this Law . bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law; ensure adoption of regulatory acts necessary for the implementation of this Law within the scope of its competence .