the family is a primary and core unit of the society. a child belongs to the family of their parents even if they do not live together . family is made through marriage, consanguinity, adoption or otherwise to an extent not in conflict with applicable law and moral principles . a person who has reached the age of marriage may start their own family . a family may be started by anyone who gave birth to a child, regardless of their age . the state shall protect the family, childhood, maternity and paternity . family relations shall be governed to cater for the needs of the child and incapacitated family members to the broadest extent possible . every participant of family relations may seek protection in court . relevant provisions of the Civil Code of Ukraine shall apply to an extent not contradicting the nature of family relationships . the court resolving the family dispute may, upon the petition of the stakeholder, take into consideration a relevant local custom as well as the custom of the ethnic minority to which a party or the parties belong . if a child or a person whose capacity is limited is not capable of exercising their rights, these rights shall be exercised by their parents or custodian . the guardianship agency shall support the person in the exercise of their family rights and obligations . each participant of family relations who has attained the age of 14 may directly go to court for the protection of their right or interest . guardianship agency must be involved in court proceedings related to participation of either parent in the child care and development . limitation period not applicable to claims arising out of family relations . marriage is a family union of a woman and a man duly registered with the state civil registration office . persons intending to register a marriage have to be at the age of marriage . a court may award the right to marry a person who has attained the marriage age . marriage requires an unforced consent of the woman and the man . marriage registration application shall become null and void three months upon submission . the state civil registration office must explain the rights and obligations to the engaged couple . partners must inform each other of their health condition . results of the medical check are confidential and may only be disclosed . marriage registration may take place as an official ceremony if requested by the couple . the couple may opt to choose last name of one of the partners as their mutual last name or not to change their last names after marriage . marriage may not be grounds for any benefits or preference or any restrictions of any rights or freedoms protected under the Constitution . marriage entered into by a person who is already in a registered marriage shall be void . a sham marriage may be declared null and void by the court . the competent court may declare the marriage null if it was registered without the free consent of either spouse . a marriage may not be declared void if the wife is pregnant or in case of childbirth . termination of marriage or death of either spouse shall not preclude declaring the marriage invalid . a void marriage as defined in Article 39 of this Code shall not be considered as the grounds for spousal rights and obligations . marriage registered in absence of either partner shall be deemed null and void . husband's unwillingness or inability to have a child may be the grounds for termination of the marriage . the wife has the right to maternity. husband has the right to paternity. wife's unwillingness or inability to give birth to a child may be the grounds for termination of the marriage . article 50. Right of the wife and the husband to respect for their individuality 1. Wife and husband may share household chores and responsibilities. husband and wife must jointly take care of their relationship as a family . husband shall promote respect to mother in the family; wife respects father . article 55. Right of wife and husband to personal inviolability 1. Wife and husband may choose their place of residence at their own discretion . court may recognise that the other spouse is eligible to get a portion of such bonus or award if it is duly established that the actions of such other spouse contributed to it . money obtained as compensation for any lost or damaged belonging or compensation for the moral damage sustained by either spouse shall be in their private ownership . insurance proceeds obtained by the wife/husband under compulsory personal insurance agreements shall be the personal property of such spouse . if either spouse executed an agreement to serve the interests of the family, then any money or assets, including any fees or award being the proceeds of this agreement, shall be jointly owned by the spouses . property of the wife/husband has significantly grown in value during the marriage due to shared contribution of efforts or money or contribution of the other spouse . the wife and the husband shall have equal rights to own, possess, use and manage any belongings owned jointly by them . divorce does not terminate the joint ownership of any property acquired in marriage . spouses may split the property in their joint ownership regardless of the marriage dissolution . agreement for splitting a residential house, apartment or any other real estate must be certified by a notary . property jointly owned by spouses shall be divided in kind . items that cannot be divided shall be awarded to either spouse . limitation period of 3 years applies to a property division claim brought following the divorce . the limitation period shall begin on the day when either co-owner became or could become aware of a potential violation of their property right . only the personal property of either spouse and their share in the property jointly owned by the spouses may be foreclosed . in case of reimbursement of damage caused by a criminal offence committed by either spouse foreclosure may apply to the property acquired during the marriage . divorce shall not terminate the eligibility to maintenance that emerged during the marriage . a former spouse shall be entitled to maintenance if they became incapacitated prior to the divorce or within one year upon the day of the divorce . maintenance shall be provided to either spouse by the other spouse in kind or as a monetary compensation . alimony awarded by court shall commence to accrue as of the day when the claim was filed with such court . right of either spouse to financial support, including to post-divorce spousal maintenance, shall terminate upon recovery of their capacity and registration of a new marriage . court may deprive either spouse of the right to maintenance or restrict its duration . right of either spouse to maintenance shall terminate in cases referred to in Articles 83, 85, 87 and 89 of this Code . alimony awarded to the wife during her pregnancy shall be paid follow the childbirth . pregnant wife and the wife living with the child shall be entitled to maintenance even upon the marriage termination . right to maintenance under Article 84 of this Code shall terminate in case of pregnancy termination, if the child is born dead, given to another person for raising, or in case the child's death . husband living with a child is entitled to spousal maintenance to be paid by his wife . maintenance shall continue in force throughout the entire period of living with and caring for the child with disabilities . alimony for the spouse living with the child with disabilities shall be awarded by the competent court in accordance with Part 1, Article 80 of this Code . maintenance termination agreement in lieu of a title to a residential house, apartment or another real estate, or a one-off payment . a marriage contract governs material relations of the spouses and defines their property rights and obligations . marriage contract may define property rights and obligations of the spouses as parents . it may not affect the scope of rights of the child defined by this Code . real estate or any other assets title to which is subject to state registration may not be transferred to either spouse under the marriage contract . parties may agree to reside in a residential property owned by either spouse or jointly by both spouses or by any of their relatives . the parties may come to an agreement that either spouse will be given maintenance regardless of their capability and need in material support . alimony may be collected under the executive order issued by the notary . marriage contract may be declared null and void due to the applicable provisions envisaged in the Civil Code of Ukraine . marriage shall be terminated if either spouse is presumed dead or declared missing . the civil registration office shall terminate the marriage based on the application for divorce filed by either spouse . divorce may be declared a sham divorce based on sufficient evidence that the spouses continued living together as a family . spouses who have children may file to a competent court a divorce application supported by an agreement made in writing . application for divorce may not be filed during the wife's pregnancy and within one year upon the childbirth . court shall try to facilitate reunification of the couple through measures that are not in conflict with the moral principles of the society . divorce must be registered with the state civil registration office . in case of divorce granted by the court, the marriage shall be deemed terminated at the effective date of the court judgment awarding divorce . if the person presumed dead has been found and the relevant court judgment has been cancelled and the death record has been revoked, their marriage with the other spouse may be restored . living apart shall not terminate the spousal rights and obligations that are established under this Code . rights of the mother, father and child are based on their parentage as certified by the state civil registration office in accordance with Article 122 and Article 125 of this Code. child born within ten months following the marriage termination or annulment shall be deemed to be the child of the spouses . spouses or former spouses may file to the state civil registration office a joint statement of non-acknowledgement the husband or former husband as the child's father . paternity of the former husband may be established based on the joint statement filed by him and the new husband or on the appropriate court award . paternity may be established based on the application of the child's mother and father . if no application referred to in Article 126 of this Code has been submitted . the court may accept a claim if there is evidence of the certain person being the father of child . a person who claims to be the father of a child born by a woman who was married to another man at the time of the child's conception or birth, may file a paternity claim against her husband . the limitation period of one year shall apply to the recognition claim, such limitation period commencing on the day when the person became or could become aware of being the child’s mother . if the child was born in wedlock, the wife is registered as the mother and the husband as the father . a person registered as the child's father may challenge his parenting . paternity may only be challenged upon the birth of the child and before the child attains the age of majority . paternity may be challenged by the heirs of the person registered as the child's father . a woman who gave birth to a child in wedlock may challenge the maternity of her husband . limitation period of one year shall apply to the mother's claim to make changes in the childbirth registration record . the mother and the father shall have equal rights in regards of the child whether or not they were married to each other . the father who is not married to the child's mother must take the child from the maternity hospital or other healthcare facility . if the father is unmarried, he shall get the status of a single father . the child's patronymic shall derive from the first name of their father . the child may be given no more than two names, unless otherwise derives from the customs of the ethnic minority to which their mother and/or father belong . in the absence of voluntary paternity recognition, the name of the child born to a woman who is not married shall be given by their mother . patronymic of the child born to an unmarried woman shall derive from the name of the person named by the child's mother as the father, provided that the paternity has not been acknowledged . in the event that both parents change their last name the last name of child under the age of seven shall be changed as well . child who has reached the age of 14 may change their patronymic with the consent of either parent . child's right to proper parental care shall be ensured by the applicable law . the child may oppose improper parenting regarding themselves . the mother, the father and the child have the right to directly communicate . the parents may apply to the court, state authorities, local governments and NGOs for the protection of the rights and interests of the child . evasion of parental obligation may lead to being held liable in accordance with the applicable law . if the resident parent evades from duly performing under the agreement, they shall reimburse any material and moral damage made to the other parent . parent who was awarded to be resident parent by the court judgment or opinion of the guardianship agency shall, at their own discretion, resolve any matters related to travelling outside Ukraine . non-resident parent who has no child support in arrears shall give written notice to the resident parent confirming their consent to the child travelling abroad . guardianship agency shall award the decision following the survey of the parents' living conditions, their attitude towards the child and any other relevant circumstances . if the resident parent is opposing the communication between the child and the non-resident parent, the other parent may seek the removal of such obstacles in court . the court shall determine the forms of participation of either parent in child-rearing . place of residence of the child under the age of ten shall be determined mutually by the parents and the child . court may award custody of the child to the grandparents or other relatives involved based upon their application . if either parent or any other person changes the minor's place of residence without the authorisation of the other parent or other persons with whom the minor was living . court may order to get hold of the minor and return them to the previous place of residency . parents have a prevailing right over any other persons to have the minor live with them . court may reject taking the minor away and handing the minor over to either parent or both parents if this is in conflict with the minor's interests . mother/father may be deprived of parental rights under Clauses 2, 4 and 5, Part 1 of this Article only upon reaching the age of majority . court may award an order that the parent whose parental rights are terminated must move out of the residential property . grandparents, adult siblings, other relatives of the child including step-parents have a preferential right for raising the child . if the court awards an order to divide or exchange such property, the child may be given to them . child who has been given to relatives, step-parents or guardianship agency has the right to continue living in the residential property where they used to live . court may allow one-time or periodical visits of the child provided that this will not pose a threat to the child's life, health and morality . child may not be reinstated if the child has reached the age of majority at the time of court proceedings . the court may award an order to take the child away from the parent(s) without terminating their parental rights . the child shall be given to the other parent, grandparent(s), or the guardianship agency . in exceptional cases where there is a direct threat to the child's life or health, the guardian or the prosecutor may award a judgment to return the child to the parents . the court may award a judgment that would not be in line with the child's interests . article 172. Duty of the adult child to take care of their parents 1. The adult child must give care and support their parents . in case of any dispute regarding property ownership the property shall be deemed to be owned by parents unless otherwise established by the court . parents shall manage the property owned by the minor without any special authority for that . the guardianship agency shall approve any transactions related to the child's real estate only upon a one-month review procedure . if the minor is incapable of defining their needs and interests, the parents must manage their property in line with such needs and interest . parents shall manage the child's property jointly unless otherwise envisaged by the applicable agreement made by and between them . the parents may use any proceeds from their minor child’s property for purposes related to caring and maintaining other children and to urgent needs of the family . child support shall be the property of the child. underage children may receive and administer the child support payments at their own discretion in accordance with the Civil Code of Ukraine . the parents must provide for the child until the child reaches the age of majority . in case either parent moves abroad for permanent residence in a country with which Ukraine does not have a legal aid agreement in place child support shall be collected according to the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. court may award collecting child support on periodical basis taking into account the amount that has already been paid . provisional state support shall be allocated from the State Budget of Ukraine . minimum guaranteed amount of child support per one child must be at least 50% of the subsistence wage for a child of the relevant age . minimum recommended child support per one child shall be equivalent to the subsistence level for the child of the relevant age . court shall not be limited by the amount of the payer's income if costs and expenses exceed their income . child support determined by the court or agreed between the parents as a fixed amount . guardianship agency shall supervise the spending of child support through inspection visits to the receiver . a parent may file an application to their employer or pension/stipend payment center for the deduction of the child support from their salary . child support may be paid from the payer's salary/pension/stipend . parents may be released from obligation to provide for the child by virtue of court order . agreement between parents may govern the amount and timings for such payments . child support may be ordered retroactively if the claimant provides sufficient evidence to the court that they were taking reasonable action to get child support payments from the respondent but to no avail due to the obligor's evasion from it . the amount of child support set by the court judgment or as agreed between the parents may be reduced or increased later under the court judgement granting the claim of the payer or the receiver . child support may be collected retroactively under the executive order . child support arrears shall be paid regardless of whether the child has reached the age of majority . the court may order the payer to pay child support as a share of income . child support arrears of the payer based on average salary in the given area . receiver shall be entitled to accrue the fine of one percent of outstanding child support amount for every day of delay . no late payment fine shall accrue if the payer is underage . the court may postpone or extend the period for payment of child support arrears . the parents must provide for their adult incapable daughter/son . right to maintenance shall terminate if studies are terminated . the court shall set the amount of parental maintenance as a fixed amount and/or a share of the income with due regard of the financial and marital status of the parties . in exceptional cases the court may award an order for the daughter/son to pay maintenance for the period that would be no longer than three years . in exceptional cases, when the mother/father is seriously ill or has a disability, the court may award an order to collect from the child, as a one-off payment or from time to time during a certain period, payments to cover expenses related to treatment and medical care for the parent . Article 208. A child may be adopted (Article 6 of this Code). 2. The child who was left in the maternity hospital or any other healthcare facility or who was not taken by their parents or other relatives can be adopted upon the adoptive parent must be a capable person at least twenty-one years old . in case of adoption of the person who has reached the age of majority the age gap must be at least eighteen years . the following categories of persons may not adopt a child: 1) persons with limited capacity; 2) persons declared as incapable . persons convicted of criminal offences against someone's life and health, freedom, honour and dignity, sexual freedom and sexual inviolability . other persons whose interests are in conflict with interests of the child may not become adoptive parents . if several persons are willing to adopt the same child, the priority shall have the citizen of Ukraine who has a child in the family . in case no one volunteered to adopt the child or have the child in custody, the raion and district state administrations in Kyiv and Sevastopol must report the same to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Oblast . directors of the facilities where the children are housed and other staff members shall be held liable in accordance with applicable law . for a failure to comply with the requirements contained in Part 1 to Part 3 of this Article, or submitting any incorrect information, citizens of Ukraine residing outside Ukraine and foreign nationals willing to adopt a child shall be registered by the central executive agency implementing the state policy on adoption . adoption of the child requires their consent if the child has reached the age and the stage of development to be capable of expressing such consent . the child's consent to be adopted shall be given in a form relevant to their age and health condition . a child may be adopted without the consent of the adult parents if the court established that the parents have not been living together with the child for over six months without any valid reasons . Article 220. Consent of the other spouse certified by a notary is required for adoption of the child by either spouse . a person who intends to adopt the child shall file an adoption application to the court . adoption shall be deemed to commence as of the court judgment awarding it . child may not reject adoption on the grounds that the person already has a child . adopted person shall have the right to keep the fact of adoption confidential, including for themselves . if the child being adopted have not reached the age of fourteen, the officials shall seek to protect the secrecy of adoption from the child . the person who filed the adoption application may request that information about the child's place of birth and date of birth be changed . in the judgment awarding the adoption, the court shall change the information . the child's name may be changed upon request of the adoptive parents . the court shall indicate the changes envisaged by this Article in the adoption award . following the adoption, any personal and property rights and obligations between the parents and the adopted person shall terminate . in case following the death of either parent of the child or termination of marriage with the person who was acknowledged by the court as incapable the other parent married again and are willing to adopt the child . the adopted child shall retain their right to pension, other social welfare options and damage compensation for the loss of the caregiver that the child had prior to the adoption . the court shall declare adoption void if it took place without the consent of the child and the parents, provided that such consent was required . in case adoption is declared void and the child has not reached the age of fourteen, their place of residence shall be determined with their consent . child's first name, last name and patronymic that they had prior to the adoption shall be restored . court may award that alimony for the child be collected from the former adoptive parent . adoption may not be annulled after the child reaches the age of majority . adoption is annulled for the reasons referred to in Clause 1, Part 1, Article 238 of this Code . the child shall retain the right to live in the residential property where they lived following the adoption . parents, adoptive parent, guardian, caregiver, guardianship agency, prosecutor or the adopted child themselves may apply to the court seeking adoption to be annulled or declared void . orphan children and children deprived of parental care shall be taken in custody or guardianship . guardian or custodian must be an adult capable person . child care institutions must act as the child's guardians and custdians . orphaned child and child deprived of parental care living in a healthcare facility, educational setting, other child care centre or an adoptive family . child's right to alimony, pension, other social benefits and compensation for loss of caregiver . guardian/caregiver may demand taking the child away from any person who keeps the minor with them other than under applicable law or a court award . a person may be released from the duty of the guardian/custodian in cases referred to by the Civil Code of Ukraine . foster care means temporary placing the child in the foster family . the child foster care agreement shall be made in writing . the child foster care agreement may be terminated if the foster parent fails to perform thereunder . the child's consent is required for placing the child in a foster family . while the child is staying in the foster family, they shall retain their right to alimony, pension, social allowance and compensation . foster care of the child and social allowance for housing the child in the foster family shall be allocated from the local budgets . adoptive parents have obligations regarding upbringing and development of the children . placing an orphan child or child deprived of parental care in a foster family requires the child's consent . orphan children and children deprived of parental care who have disabilities may continue to live in the adoptive family until they reach the age of twenty-three . adopted children shall retain their right to alimony, pension, other social benefits and compensation for the loss of caregiver that they had prior to the adoption . the adopted children may maintain communication with their parents and other relatives, except where this might harm their life, health and morality . foster care alumni are orphan children and children deprived of parental care . placing an orphan child in a foster home requires the child's consent . alumni shall live and study in the foster home until they reach the age of 18 . foster parents must comply with their duty to care for the children and provide for them . grandparents/great-grandparents may communicate with and get involved in raising their grandchildren and great-grandchildren . siblings, whether or not full, shall have the rights and obligations envisaged by the applicable law for the siblings . sibling, step-parent and other family members have the right to protect their minor, underage and adult incapable siblings and step-children . court resolution of disputes related to the participation of the grandparent, great-grandparent, sibling or step-child in raising the child . obligations to provide for the grandparents and the persons with whom they lived as a family . adult siblings must provide for their minor/underage siblings who are in need of financial support, if they do not have parents/spouse or adult children . the court may release the step-parent from the obligation to provide for the step child or limit the duration of such obligation . if the person lived with their relatives or any other persons prior to reaching the age of majority, the person must provide for the incapable relatives and other persons with whom they lived together for at least five years . this obligation arises when the person in need of financial support does not have spouse/adult children/siblings or where these persons are not able to provide them with sufficient support . the total amount of maintenance to be collected must be at least 30% of the subsistence wage for a child of the relevant age . a child who is a citizen of Ukraine but resides outside Ukraine shall be adopted . adoption by a foreign national of the child is valid provided the prior consent of the central executive agency implementing the state policy on adoption and protection of children's rights . a preference for the adoption of a Ukrainian citizen shall be given to the foreign nationals who are: 1) relatives of child; 2) citizens of countries with which Ukraine made a legal aid agreement . adoption of a child by a foreign national requires the consent of the central executive agency implementing the state policy on adoption and protection of children's rights . the adopted child shall remain the citizen of Ukraine until they reach the age of eighteen . adopted children shall have the right to maintain their national identity in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other applicable international instruments. in case the children are adopted by foreign nationals and reside outside Ukraine, the relevant consular section shall register these children and supervise that they rights are duly respected until they reach the age of eighteen . this Code shall become effective immediately as the Civil Code of Ukraine becomes effective . during the lockdown introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) the periods referred to in Article 72, Article 128, Article 129 and Article 139 of this Code shall be extended for the duration of such lockdown .