drinking water production – water withdrawal from drinking water supply sources . drinking water meant for human consumption (tap, packaged, from pump rooms, bottling points, shaft wells, catchments of springs) drinking water shall be not considered a food product in the water supply system and drinking water quality compliance points . drinking water supply standards – estimated amount of drinking water necessary to ensure the drinking, physiological, sanitary and hygienic and household needs of one person during the day . special accounts for credit funds – accounts of business entities operating in the field of centralised water supply and wastewater disposal, opened in national or foreign currency . special accounts – accounts of business entities in the field of centralised water supply and wastewater disposal . drinking water consumer – a legal entity or individual who uses drinking water to provide physiological, sanitary and hygienic, household and economic needs . technical specifications for the use of drinking water – the maximum permissible volume of technological expenses of water during its production and transportation . the scope of operation of this Law shall apply to all economic entities producing drinking water, providing cities, other settlements with drinking water through centralised drinking water supply or using water bottling points . the Laws of Ukraine “On environmental protection”, “On ensuring the Sanitary and epidemic well-being of the population”, this Law and other regulatory acts governing the relations in this area . state policy in the field of drinking water, drinking water supply and wastewater disposal . priority of water supply over other types of special water use . inevitability of liability in case of violation of the law . guarantees the protection of consumer rights . the guarantees of citizens rights to drinking water supply during their stay on vehicles for more than three hours are provided by the owners of vehicles . provision of every person with drinking water of standard quality within the scientifically grounded standards . state support in the field of drinking water, water supply and wastewater disposal . consumers of drinking water are guaranteed by the state the right of free access to information on the drinking water quality . the central executive authority in charge of implementing state policy in the field of housing and utility services annually shall prepare and publish the National Report . local authorities shall inform consumers through the media about the discrepancy between the quality indicators . powers of central executive authority include ensuring the realisation of scientific research in the field of drinking water, water supply and wastewater disposal . powers of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional, Kiev and Sevastopol city state administrations in the area include development and discharging of local programmes . local authorities have powers in the field of drinking water, water supply and wastewater disposal . they can approve urban planning programmes, master plans for the development of settlements, other urban planning documentation . local authorities are responsible for the proper provision of residents of cities and other settlements with drinking water . introduction of centralised wastewater disposal shall be mandatory in settlements with the population equivalent 2000 or more . local regulations for wastewater collection establish requirements for the wastewater collection from a settlement . discharge of sewage waters into water bodies is allowed only if the standards for maximum permissible concentrations and standards for max . permitted discharge of pollutants are observed . local regulations shall include basic requirements for the wastewater collection from a settlement . local regulations cannot provide for the obligation of individuals or legal entities to obtain any permits, approvals or other documents of a permissive nature . privatisation of state-owned enterprises providing drinking water supply shall be carried out under the law . a change in ownership of drinking water supply and/or wastewater disposal systems must be carried out in the manner prescribed by law . economic activities in the field of drinking . water supply include centralised drinking water . supply to cities and other settlements, drinking water bottling points and packaged drinking water production . procedure for limiting and compiling the list of drinking water consumers shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . drinking water supply enterprise shall carry out its activities in accordance with procedure for special water use . procedure for development, coordination and approval of investment programmes shall be licensed by the national commission for state regulation in the field of energy and utilities . centralised water supply and wastewater disposal entities – holders of special accounts shall be obliged to use the funds in such accounts solely for the implementation of investment programmes . the maximum cost of investments that can be attracted under investment programmes shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers Ukraine . crediting funds from international financial organisations, foreign government institutions or funds raised under intergovernmental agreements, or funds in the form of loans . contract on the drinking water supply provision and/or wastewater disposal services shall be concluded directly between the water supply enterprise or a legal or natural person authorised by it and the consumer . consumers have the right to: provision of drinking water with the quality that shall comply with the state sanitary norms and regulations, quantity and mode of supply shall be determined on a contractual basis . drinking water consumers are obliged to pay in a timely manner for the used drinking water in accordance with the established tariffs for centralised water supply and wastewater disposal services . enterprises have the right to develop and submit for approval to authorised authority tariffs and their justification . water supply and wastewater disposal enterprises are obliged to produce and supply drinking water to consumers under the terms of the contract . measures to provide drinking water in case of man-made or natural issue emergencies . in the event of man-made or natural issue emergencies, the heads of drinking water supply enterprises are obliged immediately . financing of the costs of providing the population with drinking water shall be carried out at the expense of the state, local budgets, and other sources not prohibited by law . approval of safety indicators and certain indicators of drinking water quality shall be carried out in accordance with international, state sanitary norms and regulations . approval of indicators that are not established in the documents of the relevant international organisations and the European Union . the central executive authority, with a frequency of once every five years, revises safety indicators in order to bring them in line with this article . technological standards for the use of drinking water shall be developed by each drinking water supply enterprise, agreed with the regional, Kiev and sevastopol city state administrations . technical specifications shall indicate: a) name and address of the facility, customer, designer, type of construction, regulatory deadlines of design and construction . sanitary protection zones and separate special regime belts of these zones shall be established . the influence of potential sources-groundwater pollutants shall be determined for each such an object separately . restrictions on economic and other activities in the zones may be imposed by law . within the sanitary protection zone it is prohibited to discharge wastewater, bathing, washing clothes, fishing, grazing and other types of water use that affect water quality . timber harvesting in the order of felling of the main forest is prohibited, as well as the placement of cemeteries, cattle burial grounds, sewage and filtration fields . within the third belt of the sanitary protection zone, it is prohibited: pumping of waste (return) water into underground horizons for their disposal, underground storage of solid waste and mining development . placing of fuel and lubricant warehouse, pesticides and mineral fertilizers, storage tanks for industrial wastewater, oil pipelines and product pipelines . ensuring compliance with the special regime belts shall be entrusted to: drinking water supply enterprises; local executive authorities . state monitoring in the field of drinking water and drinking water supply shall be carried out . aim of state accounting is to systematise data on drinking water sources . drinking water supply enterprises shall ensure primary control of drinking water quality and carry out commercial accounting . new or reconstructed residential and non-residential buildings shall not be connected to external engineering networks . state, industrial and public control shall be carried out in the field of water and drinking water supplies . Article 44. Production control in the field of drinking water and drinking water supply shall be carried out by water supply enterprises . public inspectors for environmental protection shall carry out public control . section 46. Liability for violation of the law . if a person supplies drinking water that does not meet the requirements of state sanitary norms and regulations for drinking water . violation without just cause of the established regime for supplying drinking water to the population for drinking and household needs, as well as to the food and medical industries enterprises . water supply and wastewater disposal enterprises, harmed by legal entities or individuals, shall be obliged to pay the damages to consumers . non-pecuniary damage (non-property) caused to the consumer, that is a violation of his legal rights, shall be compensated by the drinking water supply and/or wastewater disposal enterprise . Ukraine is introducing international legal arrangements to ensure the protection and rational use of drinking water source under the international treaties .