immigration shall mean arrival in Ukraine or staying in Ukraine of foreigners and stateless persons with the purpose of the permanent residence . immigration quota shall mean maximum number of immigrants who can obtain permits within a calendar year . legal status of an immigrant in Ukraine shall be determined by the Constitution of Ukraine, this Law and other regulatory acts . immigration permits shall be issued in excess of the immigration quota to: 1) one of the spouses, if the second spouse, is a citizen of Ukraine; children and parents of citizens of Ukraine . a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) shall: 1) determine the procedure for processing the applications for immigration permits and submissions on cancelling the immigration permits . diplomatic missions and consular posts of Ukraine shall accept applications for immigration permits . central executive authority shaping state labour policy shall approve list of professions and requirements to the qualification of specialists and workers . other executive authorities shall ensure enforcement of legislation on immigration . an applicant shall personally file his/her application for immigration permit to a relevant government authority . for minor persons and persons who have been recognised as incapacitated in accordance with the determined procedure, applications for immigration permits shall be filed by their legal representatives . copy of articles of association and/or registered investment agreements (contracts) and certificate from a bank on receiving a foreign investment into the economy of Ukraine in hard currency of at least USD 100 (one hundred) thousand . for persons specified in clause 3, part 2, Article 4 of this Law — copy of documents confirming their family relations with a citizen of Ukraine . persons permanently staying outside Ukraine, except for the persons listed in clauses 1, 3, 6, part 3, Article 4 of this Law, shall submit a certificate of no record of convictions along their application for immigration permit . permits shall not be issued to persons who were sentenced to imprisonment for more than one year . a person permanently staying outside Ukraine who has obtained the immigration permit shall be issued a long-stay visa by a diplomatic mission or consular post of Ukraine at his/her request . after arrival of an immigrant in Ukraine, he/she must, within five business days, apply for a permanent residence permit . a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) may cancel an immigration permit if it is found that it was issued under deliberately false a person in whose respect a decision to cancel his/her immigration permit was made must exit from Ukraine within one month after the date of receiving a copy of the decision . in case of cancellation of the immigration permit of a . person who had been recognised as a refugee in Ukraine prior to issuance of the . immigration permit he/she cannot be deported or forcibly returned to a country where life or freedom would be threatened . this Law shall become enter into force one month after its publication . Cabinet of Ministers shall prepare and submit for consideration to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals . foreigners and stateless persons who entered Ukraine for permanent residence prior to the effective date of this Law . foreigners and stateless persons entered Ukraine as orphan children due to military conflicts in places of their permanent residence . persons specified in clause 4 of the Final Provisions shall be issued permanent residence permits based on their applications .