this Law shall define the principles of organisation and operation of road transport . road transport is a branch of transport that ensures meeting the needs of the population and social production during the transportation of passengers and cargos by road vehicles . metropolitan bus route, suburban bus route and intercity bus route are defined . public bus route provides regular passenger transportation . road carrier is an individual or legal entity that transports passengers or (and) cargos by vehicles on a commercial basis or at its own expense . cargo terminal (autoport) is a complex of buildings, structures equipped with loading facilities aimed to perform cargo and economic works with cargos . permission for international transportation by road transport is issued by the authorities of the Contracting Parties to international road carriers . cargo documents are documents necessary for the transportation of cargo by road transport . in case of termination of road carrier-legal entity by means of reorganisation, the newly created legal entity (newly created legal entities) shall gain the experience of its work . electronic ticket is a travel document of the established form that entitles the passenger to receive transport services . dangerous cargo – substances, materials, products, wastes of industrial and other activities and containers from them . irregular passenger transportation is a transportation of passengers by bus, ordered by a legal entity or individual by means of concluding a written contract for each service . transport of passengers in express traffic mode – a public bus route that has usual traffic mode in compliance with all stops provided for in the traffic schedule . passenger or cargo transportation service is a transportation of passengers or cargo by vehicles on contractual terms with the customer of the service for a fee . regular passenger transportation is transportation of certain categories of passengers (employees of enterprises, schoolchildren, students, tourists, campers and others) on a bus route under the conditions specified in the route passport approved in the prescribed manner . taxi is a passenger car equipped with an orange identification light, which is installed on the roof of the car, a working taximeter and a signal light with green and red lights located in the upper right corner of the wind-shield . freight forwarding services are services connected with the preparation and shipment of cargos, organisation and provision of transportation . authorities of contracting parties are state authorities defined by the legislation for the implementation of its provisions . establishing the requirements for carriers, drivers and vehicles to ensure transportation safety and environmental safety . ensuring employment of the population, training of specialists and workers, labour protection . creating equal work conditions for the work of all business entities . government regulation and control in the sphere of road transport is implemented by means of conducting economic, tariff, scientific, technical and social policy . central executive authority, local executive authorities and local authorities shall carry out discharging of state policy on road transport . issuance of certificates of vehicle compliance with the requirements of the Contract on international transportation of perishable food products and on special vehicles dedicated for such transportations . dimensional and weight control of vehicles on public roads; charge, in case of breach detection, and taking measures to collect payment . local authorities shall form a network of metropolitan public bus routes and carry out the control over compliance with the legislation in the field of road transport in the relevant area . all vehicles of Ukrainian and foreign carriers providing road transportation of passengers and cargos on the territory of Ukraine are subject to state control . at checkpoints across the state border of Ukraine, the central executive authority implementing the state customs policy shall carry out dimensional and weight control of vehicles . state control authority shall notify in writing the road carrier to be inspected no later than 10 calendar days prior to the scheduled inspection . unscheduled inspections are carried out by authorities, gaining the right to carry out state control in order to verify the presented facts and comply with the order of violation of the law . licensing of road transport is aimed at determination of initial and current conditions . license is issued for economic actions for the output of services for the transportation of passengers and dangerous cargos . tariff policy on road transport should satisfy business interest . socially significant road transport services are services for the transportation of passengers by public bus routes . road transport insurance is carried out in accordance with the law . regional councils approve regional programs of road transport development . keeping of register of intercity and suburban public bus routes is entrusted to the verkhovna rada . keeping of the register of taxi stands is to the executive authority of the respective locality . road transport staff are liable to meet the requirements specified by legislation . training, retraining, certification and recurrent training of drivers for road vehicles is provided in the manner, defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the request of central executive authority . road carriers are obliged to organise the work of drivers of vehicles, their modes of work and rest in accordance with the requirements of the legislation of Ukraine . registered cars, which are equipped for work as a taxi, are not subject to state re-registration . vehicles and their parts must meet the requirements of regulatory acts and design documentation . buses equipped with control devices (tachographs) for registration of work and rest modes of drivers are allowed for transportation of passengers by buses at night . in a vehicle for the international transportation of perishable goods, there must be documents on admission to the transportation of such cargos . requirements for installation and use on vehicles intended for international transportation, control devices (tachographs) for registration of work and rest of drivers, must be met on the territory of Ukraine . central executive authority ensuring component and implementation of state policy in the field of transport, approves the provisions on maintenance and repair of vehicles . carrier provides the compliance of the technical state of vehicles with the requirements of the legislation in the period between obligatory technical controls . legislation defines the relation between the seller and buyer of car fuel and lubricating oils . executor under the contract on maintenance and repair of vehicles can not propose to the customer under this contract any additional paid services, during its conclusion or execution . the executor shall be responsible for non performance or improper performance of this contract in accordance with this contract, unless otherwise provided for by law . bus stations and taxi stands shall provide the following: a list of works of maintenance and repairs and term of their execution; value of works and procedure of calculation; list of components (materials) used . premises of bus stations can be temporarily used for provision of additional services to passengers . location of taxi stops and stands should ensure the following: convenient and safe access to them; density of travel; no obstacles for other users of road traffic . a road carrier and a self-employed road carrier, performing transportation of passengers on contractual terms have the right to: cancel the travel of own vehicles due to the circumstances which he could not have predicted . self-employed road carrier, providing the transportation of passengers on contractual terms, is obliged to: keep vehicles in proper technical and sanitary conditions, ensure their intime submission for boarding and departure of passengers . the road carrier is also required to: provide the verification of presence of passenger documents, necessary to enter the country of destination . relations between road carrier, performing transportation of passengers on public bus routes and executive authorities, local authorities are defined by the contract . output of services and performance of works related to departure and arrival of passengers is considered to be the subject of the contract with bus station owners . owners of bus stations are obliged to conclude a contract only on hand of contract with executive authorities and local authorities . road carrier is liable to execute the requirements of this Law and other legislative and regulatory acts on Ukraine in the sphere of transportation of passengers and/or cargo . road carriers with a quantity of vehicles of ten or more are obliged to organise recurrent training for road transport managers and specialists . services for transportation of passengers by buses can be provided by modes of transportation organisation: regular, regular special, irregular . by the mode of transport, bus routes are divided into: metropolitan, suburban, intercity, international . two drivers should be sent on bus route that is longer than 500 km . the rules of urban passenger road transport are approved by the appropriate local authority . they determine the procedure of travel and its payment, rights and duties of passengers . it is forbidden for road carrier, performing transportation of passengers on public bus routes to refuse to provide concessionary transportation . transportation of groups of children can be brought about in the modes of regular and irregular passenger transportation . the maximum number of children and accompanying persons during the transportation by bus, shall not exceed the number of seats in it . for regular special passenger transportation: for road carrier – license, contract with a customer of transport services, route passport, document which certifies the use of bus lawfully . legal entity performing the transportation of passengers by taxi: for road carrier – license, other documents, provided by the legislation of Ukraine; for taxi driver – driving license of relevant category, certificate on vehicle registration . documents for self-employed road carrier: license, driving license, vehicle log book, medical certificate . a driver of a bus is obliged to: execute the rules for the output of services of public passenger transport and technical operation of the bus . taxi driver has a right to refuse to passenger in services provision, in the following cases: the passenger has obvious signs of intoxication; the number of people, requiring services exceeds number of seats in the car . the documents for the individual for the transportation of passengers by cars are driving licence of relevant category, certificate on vehicle registration . the luggage of the passenger cannot be placed in the trunk or cabin of the car at ease . taxi driver is forbidden to refuse passengers to carry out transportation, except for the cases stipulated by this Article . passenger has the right to receive information on services of public road transport from the carrier, driver . contract on passenger transportation by bus of the general use route is concluded between road carrier and passenger . contract on taxi shall become effective from moment of boarding of the passenger and is valid until the moment of his/her disembarkation at the destination . decision on road carrier on public bus route is carried out solely on a competative basis . a road carrier for a work on an international public bus route is determined on a competitive basis in the manner, defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . tender for passenger transportation includes the following: reasonable structure of bus fleet working on the public route, by passenger capacity, class, technical and environmental indicators . in case the carriers-applicants do not have the buses, meeting the requirements of tender they have the right to submit an application to participate in the competition . representatives of business entities-road carriers, which operate in the passenger transport market and can exert a measure of influence on the decisions of the committee can not be members of tender committee . executive authorities and local authorities shall involve on competitive terms under the contract an enterprise (organisation) that has specialists and work experience of at least three years in organisation of passenger transportation . if tender has not taken place or the winner has not been defined, the applicants receive back the payment for participation in tender . documents by virtue of which cargo transportation is performed are the following: a certificate of conformity of the bus with the parameters of comfort . internal transportation of cargo shall include the transportation between points of departure and destination, located in Ukraine . for road carrier – document which certifies lawful use of vehicle, other documents . for driver – certificate on admission of the vehicle for the transportation of certain dangerous goods . a permission is also an obligatory document in case of transportation of cargoes in excess of dimensional or weight restrictions . customer has the right to receive the compensation in accordance with the law in case of damage or deterioration of cargo, its partial or complete loss or delay of delivery . road carrier has the following right: to refuse from acceptance of cargo for transportation if the customer has not prepared the cargo or necessary documents . residents of Ukraine who have work experience of internal transportation on contractual terms for not less than three years are allowed to provide international transportation of passengers and dangerous goods . drivers of vehicles that belong to residents or non-residents of Ukraine are obliged to allow officials of the central executive authority, ensuring the implementation of state policy on safety at land transport to carry out the verification of tachographs . cea shall develop and implement state policy in the field of international cooperation on road transport . permit documents of the european conference of ministers of transport are distributed on a tender basis, taking into account the level of traffic safety and environmental safety of vehicles, approved at european states and efficiency of their use . regular, irregular and shuttle movement international passenger road transportation shall be carried out by buses that meet the requirements of the transportation and comfort parameters . control over implementation of international transportation of passengers and cargo by road transport shall have the following functions: control over the execution by carriers the requirements of international treaties of Ukraine on issues of international road transport . requirements for professional qualification according to volume and level of training shall provide for the possession of sufficient knowledge in order to engage in professional activity . non-residents of Ukraine shall ensure necessary modes of work and rest of drivers, control over their health, as well as control over technical, sanitary and environmental condition of the bus . the right to perform international transportation of passengers by vehicles is granted to drivers who turned 21 years old . administrative and economic fines shall be applied to carriers for the violation of the law on road transport . transportation of passengers on the route more than 500 kilometres long by one driver – fine in the amount of thirty non-taxable minimum income of citizens . driving vehicles during the international road transportation without control devices (tachographs) for registration of modes of work or rest for drivers of vehicles . violation of the law on road transport provided by paragraphs 14–16, part 1 of this Article can be recorded automatically in the manner defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . administrative and economic fines are imposed in accordance with the law by the central executive authority . road toll for vehicles and other self-propelled machines and mechanisms is credited to the state road fund . the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall define the procedure of penalty in the form of fine for the breach, set in this Article . submit to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals on bringing the laws of Ukraine in line with this law . ensure that ministries and other central executive authorities bring their regulations in line . with the respective competence, ensure adoption of the regulatory acts provided for by this Law .