this Law defines the general principles of charity work in Ukraine . it provides legal regulation of relations in society aimed at the development of charity . the law also provides favourable conditions for the creation and operation of charities . charity works in the fields of education, culture and art, protection of cultural heritage . other definitions of this Law shall be used in the meanings defined by the civil and tax codes of Ukraine and other laws of Ukraine . charitable organisations shall not have the right to provide charitable assistance to political parties . philanthropists may jointly or individually perform charity work on the basis of voluntary choice of one or more of the following types . a charitable donation shall be considered a gratuitous transfer of funds, other property, proprietary rights to beneficiaries . the agreement on charitable donation of currency valuables shall not be subject to mandatory notarisation. charity grants shall be subject to the provisions on charitable donations unless otherwise provided by law . philanthropists or the persons authorised by him/her shall have the right to control the intended use of a charitable donation . public fundraising shall be considered a voluntary collection of targeted assistance in the form of funds or property . public fundraising for the benefit of a charitable organisation on their own behalf . contract (agreement) should specify, in particular, the purposes, place and term of fundraising or collection of other property . public fundraising in the form of excisable goods shall be prohibited . a telecommunications operator shall collect charitable donations using a charity message . a power of attorney shall not be required to be issued to the operator from a non-profit organisation, as well as a charitable organisation (except for political parties and credit unions) or a territorial community . the requirements for the execution of a donation message, not established by law, shall be determined on the basis of the relevant adhesion agreement . philanthropists have the right to establish land easements or other real estate in favour of charitable organisations or other beneficiaries . changes to the purposes, procedure and terms of use of a charitable endowment shall be possible only with the consent of the donor or his/her successors . public fundraising via charitable telecommunication message is not permitted . patronage activity shall be considered a preparation or support of charity events . provisions of part 1 of this Article shall not apply to advertising, election campaigning . employees of charitable organisations shall be subject to labour legislation, social security . a charitable organisation may be established as a charity society, charity institution, or charity foundation . charity society shall be considered a charitable organisation established by at least two founders . charity institution shall be a charity organisation, whose statutory act may be contained in a will . statutory documents of a charities society and charity foundation shall be the charter . the charter of a charity society and charity foundation shall also include the conditions and procedure for admission to the charity society or charity foundation . state registration of charitable organisations shall be carried out by state registrars . information on the structure and amount of income and expenses of charities shall not be considered confidential information . the reporting of charitable organisations may contain information on the identity of philanthropists or beneficiaries . the governing bodies of charity societies and charity foundations shall be the general meeting of participants, the executive authority and the supervisory board . in the event of a reorganisation, the successors of the charitable organisation are one or more charitable organisations . the supreme governing body of charity societies and charity foundations is the general meeting of participants . the executive authority of a charitable organisation is a permanent body of the charitable organisation . members of the supervisory board are not members of executive authority . members of the governing bodies of a charitable organisation shall be jointly and severally liable for the body's actions or omissions that caused damage to the charitable organisation as a result of the violation of this Law . state control in the field of charity work shall be exercised by executive authorities . officials of executive authorities and local governments bear civil, administrative, disciplinary, and criminal liability for violation of the legislation on charity work . this Law shall come into force on the day following the day of its publication . individual shall submit an application, a copy of the document on the registration number of the taxpayer's record card or series and passport number . inclusion in the Register is exercised on an applicant basis within one working day . the listed below legislative acts of Ukraine shall be amended as follows: 1) in article 131 of the Economic Code of Ukraine, 2003, Nos. 18–22, Article 144, the words “member charity organisations” shall be replaced with the words "charity societies" in paragraph 1 the words "on charity" shall be replaced with the words “on charity work” . in paragraph 3 the words ‘for the purposes specified in Article 3 of the Law of Ukraine “On Charity Work and Charitable Organisations”; in paragraph 8 the words 'in the areas provided for in Article 4' . “registration fee for state registration of changes to the statutory documents of charitable organisations shall not be collected” . Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall: bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law; ensure, within the scope of its powers, the issuance of regulatory acts provided for by this Law .