this Law determines the legal, social, economic, environmental and organisational bases . it stimulates the increased share of their use to 20 per cent of the total fuel consumption . slags and wastes from industry, agriculture, municipal and other enterprises may be sources or raw material for the extraction or production of alternative types of fuel . the content of bioethanol in motor petrol that is produced and/or is sold within the territory of Ukraine shall be: in 2013 – recommended content of at least 5 per cent (volume); in 2014–2015 – required content of 5% (volume). biodiesel fuel (biogas) – gas obtained from biomass that is used as fuel. biogas is a type of biofuel. biobutanol is an alcohol made from biomass. since 2016 – required content of at lest 7 per cent (volume) of alternative types of fuel . if such fuel meets according to its characteristics the requirements for the traditional type of fuel, this Law shall apply only to its production (extraction) and shall not apply to fuel consumers . in the event of recognition of natural monopolies, implementation of control over their activities and restraint of monopoly abuse shall be established . combustible liquids obtained during the processing of solid types of fuel (coal, peat, shale); alcohols (bioethanol, biobutanol) and synthetic products obtained on their basis which can be used as fuel or fuel components . alternative types of gas fuel shall include: gas (methane) from coal deposits, as well as gas obtained during underground gasification and underground combustion of coal seams . producers of alternative fuel shall be business entities that produce solid, liquid and gas fuel from non-traditional sources and types of energy raw materials . re-equipment of technical equipment to work on an alternative type of fuel must be agreed with the enterprise-manufacturer of the technical equipment or the central executive authority . business entities that use different technologies for the production of biological types of fuel shall have equal rights to access the market of biological fuel . bioethanol production shall be carried out by business entities provided that an appropriate licence is available . the production and storage of ethyl alcohol at enterprises producing bioethanol shall be prohibited . storage and transportation of bioethanol without its denaturation from 1–10 per cent of petrol shall be prohibited . measures to stimulate production (extraction) and consumption of alternative types of fuel shall include: . providing legal entities and individuals with subsidies, grants, tax, credit and other benefits established by laws of Ukraine . Financing of measures to stimulate production (extraction) and consumption of alternative types of fuel shall be carried out at the expense of funds of enterprises, institutions, organisations regardless of the form of ownership . international co-operation in the field of production (eXtraction) & consumption of alternate types of . fuel shall take place in accordance with the procedure and in the amount established by the legislation of Ukraine . Ukraine shall participate in international co-operation in the field of production (extraction) and consumption of alternative types of fuel . if an international treaty of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine provides for other rules than those contained in this Law, those rules shall apply . this Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication .