this Law defines legal and organisational principles of permit activities in the field of nuclear energy use . it is an exception to the general provisions established by the Law of Ukraine "On Licensing of certain types of economic activity" permitting activity is aimed at protecting national security interests, preventing the exceeding of permissible levels of human exposure and environmental pollution . licensee – a process owner in the field of nuclear energy use which has obtained a licence as prescribed by law to perform the activity . licencee is responsible for nuclear and radiation safety, physical security of nuclear facilities, radioactive waste, other ionising radiation sources . licensee's responsibilities include site selection, designing, construction, commissioning, operation, decommissioning of a nuclear facility . law establishes legal regime for permitting activities in the field of nuclear energy use . effect of this Law shall extend to relations arising due to the performance of permitting activities . ensuring use of only those nuclear facilities, ionising radiation sources, facilities intended for radioactive waste management, uranium facilities, meeting international-level requirements . ensuring the implementation of activities in the field of nuclear energy use only by those individuals and legal entities that can guarantee compliance with the requirements of legislation, norms, regulations and standards . priority of ensuring nuclear and radiation safety over other interests; differentiated approach to different activities and ionising radiation sources . licensing of activity related to the direct management of reactor unit by personnel and activity of officials of operating organisation . ability to provide physical security of nuclear facilities, nuclear materials, radioactive waste, other ionising radiation sources, accounting and control of nuclear materials a prerequisite for issuing business entities the permitting documents for activities in the field of nuclear energy use . licences issued by the authorised bodies of foreign states shall be recognised in Ukraine under international agreements . licence shall be basis for commencing activities at a particular stage of the life cycle of a nuclear facility or radioactive waste storage facility . one licence may be issued for a complex of several nuclear facilities located within a single site . list of personnel positions who directly manage the reactor facility shall be specified in the licence for activity of operating organisation . conditions and procedure of licensing the activity of personnel and officers of the operating organisation shall be defined by the state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety . ionising radiation sources, including those, where the activity using such sources is exempted from licensing, are subject to state registration . application for a license shall indicate the boundaries of the site where the nuclear facility or radioactive waste storage facility is located (planned to be located) the amount of charges for conducting permitting procedures in the field of nuclear energy use and the procedure for its collection shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . inspection of the applicant shall be compulsory if he carries out activities at the stages of construction and commissioning, operation and decommissioning of a nuclear facility . the terms of verification for completeness and accuracy of data contained state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety shall issue a licence to the applicant . licence file stores documents submitted by the licensee for issuance, licence re-issuance, amendments, issuance of a duplicate licence, changes made to it, orders to eliminate violations of the licence conditions . a decision to refuse a license issuing may be appealed by the applicant in court . licences in the field of nuclear energy use shall be issued by the state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety using the forms of a special pattern approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . procedure for accounting, storage of licence forms and keeping of relevant reporting shall be established . licences shall indicate name of the regulatory body that issued a licence; name and location of the applicant . licence shall be signed by a principal or other authorised official of the state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety and sealed . the licence is subject to re-issuance in case of: reorganisation of a licensee, except for the transformation of the joint-stock company into another business company; change of place or territory of performing certain activities . state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety shall make a decision on recognising the previous licence invalid making appropriate amendments to the unified register of issued licences no later than the next working day . processing of the application for licence amendments and its re-issuance shall be carried out following the procedure established for the licence issuance . licence for activity performance at certain stages of the life cycle of nuclear facility or radioactive waste storage facility may be suspended . a licence for the performance of activity at the stages of construction and commissioning of the nuclear facility (prior to loading of nuclear materials into a nuclear facility) may be revoked . failure to eliminate the identified violations in a timely manner in case of performing activities at such facility or storage facility shall result in licence revocation . licensee must cease previously permitted activity, notify authority about it . the decision to suspend or revoke a licence may be appealed by a licensee in court . state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety may issue a duplicate licence . process owners in the field of nuclear energy use shall have the right to receive information on review status and results of submitted documents . process owners shall be obliged to: manifest the intention to perform the activity that requires the issuance of a permitting document . the list of records subject to publication, as well as a procedure for their publication, shall be established by the state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety . this Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication . permits for activity in the field of nuclear energy use which were in force in Ukraine before the adoption of this Law, shall expire no later than three years after this Law . article 33 of Law of Ukraine "On the Use of Nuclear Power and Radiation Safety" shall be amended as follows: “Article 33. Operating organisation (operator) – a state-appointed legal entity that carries out activities related to site selection, designing, construction, commissioning, operation, decommissioning of a nuclear facility or site selection . ensuring storage of spent nuclear fuel, processing and disposal of radioactive waste . staffing, training and retraining of personnel; insurance of personnel in case of nuclear damage; decommissioning and preservation of nuclear facilities . social and economic development of areas where nuclear facilities are located .