the purpose of this Law is to regulate the peculiarities of legal relations during further operation and pre-schedule decommissioning of Chornobyl NPP units . the transformation of the ruined fourth power unit of this NPP into an environmentally safe system, as well as provision of social protection for personnel . the effect of the Law extends to activities related to the further operation, decommissioning of Chornobyl NPP power units . activities relating to the transformation of the Shelter Object into an environmentally safe system shall be performed in accordance with the duly approved National Programme . prior to retrieval of nuclear fuel containing materials and radioactive waste from the Shelter Object, transferring them to a controlled state shall be provided . funding of activities relating to preparation for and decommissioning of Chornobyl NPP power units and the transformation of the shelter object into an environmentally safe system . international technical assistance which provided free of charge and on a non-refundable basis shall be subject to special tax treatment . employees of Chornobyl NPP who entered a job before 15 December 2000 and retire from employment due to pre-schedule decommissioning shall be entitled to: social security and insurance on a general basis in accordance with the legislation . employees shall be provided with additional guarantees regarding: a) the provision of one-time assistance in the amount of not less than average monthly earnings . employees of Chornobyl NPP who are being retired due to pre-schedule decommissioning shall be guaranteed the right to receive unemployment benefits . unemployment benefits can be paid as a one-time payment for unemployed persons to set up business undertakings . financial assistance during occupational training, retraining or advanced training shall be provided in the amount of unemployment benefits at the beginning of training . this Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law . a salary shall be set in the amount no lower than the average salary of relevant professions and positions at the operating nuclear power plants . 3) allocate annually in draft laws on the State Budget of Ukraine, funds for financing activities specified in Articles 7 and 8 of this Law . funding for “Vektor” complex construction; physical security of nuclear facilities and nuclear materials .