lessees of land plots are legal entities or individuals who have the right to own and use the land plot pursuant to the lease contract . the lessor of a land plot that is part of the inheritance property, in the absence of heirs by will and by law, deprivation from the right of inheritance, waiver of inheritance . a lessee can include: a person, a legal entity, an organisation, an individual or a group of individuals . lessees acquire the right of lease of a land plot on the grounds and in accordance with the procedure provided for by the land code of Ukraine . in the event of termination of the lease contract before expiry at the initiative of the lessor of the land plot, he shall compensate the lessee for the costs of its acquisition . the right to lease is subject to state registration pursuant to the law . in case of conviction to imprisonment or incapacitation of the lessor, the right to lease a land plot shall pass to one of his or her family members . a leased land plot or a part thereof may be subleased by the lessee without changing its intended purpose . the right of sublease of land plots is subject to state registration . land plots in state or municipal ownership may not be alienated by the lessee . the right to lease a land plot granted for the construction of a residential unit may be alienated . sublease of land plot based on property pertaining to the autonomous republic of crimea is prohibited . lessee may alienate the right of lease of a land plot ten working days after expiration of this term . lessee and lessor of land plots situated within the area of agricultural lands have the right for the period of the lease contract to exchange the rights of each other . termination of one of the land lease or sublease contracts concluded within the framework of exchange of rights of use shall terminate another lease contract concluded in substitution . a person who owns the right to use a significant part of the area of agricultural lands may take a lease of other agricultural land plots, located within this area . the lessee (sublessee) shall not have a pre-emptive right to purchase the leased land plot in case of its sale . a lessee may not be authorised to compensation by the other party to the contract for any improvements of the land plot . a person who owns the right to use a significant part of the area of agricultural lands shall be obliged to provide the land user with the right of passage or way to such the land plot . stipulating in the lease (sublease) contract, provisions other than those provided for in Part 5, is allowed only with the other party's consent . the size of property damage shall be determined by the assessment conducted under the legislation on land valuation . the court determines the size of property damage caused as a result of the conclusion of lease (sublease) contracts and specifies the procedure for its compensation . in case of failure to reach consent on concluding a lease contract such a contract shall be deemed concluded by a court decision . the judgment on recognition of the lease contract as concluded shall constitute the basis for state registration of the right of lease (sublease) of the land plot . leased land plots in state or municipal ownership shall not be alienated without the lessee's consent . risk of accidental destruction or damage to the leased object shall be borne by the lessor . a land lease contract means an agreement under which the lessor undertakes to transfer the land plot to the lessee for possession and use during a certain period . land lease contracts are concluded in a written form and may be subject to notarial certification upon the will of either party . lease contract for land plot located under field-protective belt shall also contain provisions for maintenance and preservation of such belts . lease contract of land and water body situated within its borders shall also stipulate the following: amount of lease payment for water body . land lease contract in relation to state or municipal lands shall be concluded by virtue of a decision of the relevant executive authority or local government authority . the right to lease a land plot shall arise from the moment of state registration . the term of the land lease contract shall be determined with the consent of the parties . in case of leasing agricultural land plots, the period of the contract may not be less than 7 years . if the lease contract expires on the day or after the day of death of the lessor, the contract shall be renewed at the request of the lessee for the same period and with the same provisions . lease payment shall mean the payment made by a lessee to a lessor for use of a land plot under the land lease contract . the amount, provisions, and terms of payment of rent of land lease shall be determined by the parties . lessee is authorised to require a relevant reduction of lease payment if the condition of the leased land plot has deteriorated through no fault of his own . lessor shall have the right to require the lessee to use the land plot for its intended purpose in accordance with the lease contract . executive authorities and local governments concluding land lease contracts shall provide the tax authority at the location of the land plot by february 1 . lessee's rights and obligations The land plot's lessee shall have the right to: manage the land independently pursuant to provisions of the lease contract . in case of lease of a land plot with the water body situated within its borders, the lessee must pay the lease payment for that water body . lessee is obliged to avoid creating obstacles in the exercise of the right of general water use . the lessee's rights to the leased land plot are subject to protection . amount of compensation by the lessor subject to reduction if lessee intentionally increased damages . if the lessee improves the leased land plot at his own expense, the lessor shall be obliged to compensate the costs of its improvement . lessee shall have the right to retain the benefits from the improvement at its own expense if these improvements can be separated without causing damage to the land plot . if lessee deteriorates useful properties of the rented land plot due to its changed condition, lessor may obtain compensation for the damages . the contract concluded within the framework of a public-private partnership, including a concession contract, has been terminated (dissolved) the land lease contract shall also be terminated in other cases provided by law . the lease contract may be dissolved with the consent of the parties . the lease contract for the land plot of state or municipal ownership may be dissolved . a request may be made to allocate such a part to a separate land plot . dissolution of the land lease contract is subject to full compensation to the lessee and third parties . public needs to be satisfied by virtue of dissolution of land lease contracts . lessee's pre-emptive right to enter into land lease contract for a new term . lessor's death may result in the lessee notifying the heir of the land plot . in case of failure to reach consent on lease payment, other essential provisions of the contract may be changed . the lessor shall consider the letter sent by the lessee with a draft lease contract within a month . in the case of lease of state and municipal lands, the contract shall be concluded by virtue of a decision of the authority entitled to transfer land plots for ownership or use . if no later than 30 days before the expiration of the contract with the lesssee who is an investor with significant investments, the specified terms remain valid . lessee shall be obliged to return the land to the lessor on the terms specified in the contract . if the lessee fails to comply with its obligation regarding the conditions of return of the land plot to the lesor, it shall be liable for the damages caused . lessor shall be responsible for the shortcomings of the leased land, which were not stipulated in the lease contract and prevent the use of land plot under the contract, if such shortcomings have been identified . parts 14–16 of Article 8-2 of this Law shall cease to apply two years after the entry into force of the Law of Ukraine "On the Circulation of Agricultural Land" within a month from the date of entry into . force of law shall be implemented by the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine . the regulations stipulated in Article 126-1 of the Land Code of Ukraine on renewal of land lease contracts . they apply to lease contracts concluded or amended after the entry into force of the Law of Ukraine "on amendments to certain legislative acts of ukraine on countering raiding" renewal of lease contracts conclusive before the enactment of this Law shall be subject to the conditions specified in such contracts at the time of their conclusion .