this Law is aimed at ensuring the attraction and efficient allocation of financial resources by the investors . it defines the legal and organisational basis for the establishment, operation and termination of collective investment entities . collective investment activity shall mean activities carried out for the benefit of the participants (participant) of the collective investment institution . collective investment institution shall mean a corporate or unit fund . control shall mean ownership, directly or through related individuals and/or legal entities . holding of posts of head, deputy head, members of the governing bodies or executive bodies by persons who already hold one or more of the mentioned posts in another legal entity . collective investment funds shall mean funds contributed by the founders of the corporate fund . related persons shall mean legal entities and/or individuals whose relationship may have an impact on the conditions or economic results of their activities . family members of an individual shall be considered to be his or her spouse, direct relatives (children or parents) the legislation on joint-stock companies shall not apply to the regulation of the activities of corporate funds . the custodian of the assets of the collective investment institution, the depository, the auditor (audit firm), the property appraiser may not be participants . an individual may be a participant in a venture capital fund provided that the securities thereof are purchased in an amount equal to or greater than 1,500 times the monthly minimum wage . collective investment institutions shall be registered by the Commission by entering information on the collective investment institution in the Register and assigning the registration code to that institution . the grounds for refusing to register the rules shall be: 1) incompliance with the submitted documents with the requirements of the law; 2) absence of documents required by law; 3) false information in the documents submitted. notice of refusal to register the rules and to enter a collective investment institution in the Register shall be sent to the applicant by a letter signed by the authorised official of the Commission . if the applicant takes full account of the observations of the commission, the Commission may not refuse to register . collective investment activities shall be carried out after the collective investment institutions are entered in the register and the Certificate of Entry into the Register obtained . a collective investment institution shall be established for a fixed period, as specified in its rules . the operating term of the fixed-term corporate fund may be extended by a resolution . in the event of an extension of the term, the participants must redeem their securities . the collective investment institution shall be considered specialised if it invests exclusively in assets defined hereby . only diversified, specialised and qualified investment institutions may be regarded the interval collective investment institutions . the securities of such an institution are subject to compulsory circulation on the stock exchange . non-diversified closed collective investment institution, which carries out exclusively private placement of its securities among legal entities and individuals shall be regarded a venture fund . a corporate fund is a legal entity established in the form of a joint-stock company . the corporate fund and its bodies may not be subject to any sanctions restricting their rights . participants of a corporate fund shall not be liable for the obligations of the corporate fund . participants of corporate funds whose assets comprise above 10 per cent of the shares of the bank are liable to obligations of bank under law . corporate fund acquired status of collective investment institution from the day it is entered into the Register . a corporate fund may not be established by a legal entity with a state or communal share in their authorised capital of more than 25 per cent . the founders of the corporate fund shall pay for the shares of the fund with the funds only . a breach of the establishment phases of the corporate fund shall be regarded as a ground for the Commission to refuse issuing a certificate . the number of votes of the founders at the founding meeting of a corporate fund is determined by the amount of its shares acquired by each of its founders . a report on the results of private placement of shares among founders must be registered within 30 working days . founding meeting of a corporate fund shall decide on the charter of the fund . resolutions on any other matters shall be taken by a simple majority of the founders . charter should contain information on: 1) Full name of the corporate fund in Ukrainian; 2) Type of corporate fund (diversified, non-diversified, specialised, qualified); 3) Investment fund class if corporate fund is specialised or qualified . if the charter is not approved, funds shall be returned within 30 working days . charter of the corporate fund may not grant additional rights or powers to its founders over other participants in such a corporate fund . corporate fund shall be obliged to register its rules within six months from the date of the state registration of corporate fund as a legal entity . rules shall contain information on: 1) Full name of the corporation; 2) Identification code of the company according to the unified state register of legal entities . the rules and amendments thereto shall be approved by the supervisory board of the corporate fund . the authorised capital of a corporate fund shall constitute no less than 1250 times the minimum monthly wage established by law on the registration date of the fund as a legal entity . the general meeting and the supervisory board shall be the bodies of the corporate fund . the annual general meeting shall be held not later than 30 April of the year following the reporting year . all other general meetings, except for annual meetings, are considered to be extraordinary . the supervisory board of a corporate fund may not be granted with the powers to decide matters falling within the exclusive competence of the general meeting . a general meeting may adopt resolutions on the issues of holding the meeting, unless otherwise provided for in the charter or rules . the list of participants of the corporate fund entitled to participate in the general meeting shall be compiled by the depository of securities at the end of the operational day three working days before the day of the meeting . a corporate fund or a person keeping a record of the ownership of shares in such a fund shall be obliged to provide information on its inclusion in the list . the written notice on holding a general meeting and its agenda shall be sent personally by the person convening the meeting, at least 30 calendar days prior to the day corporate fund with more than 1,000 participants shall publish a notice on holding the general meeting in the official printed media of the Commission . the corporate fund having shares traded on the stock exchange shall send the notice to such a stock exchange . a corporate fund may not amend documents made available to participants of corporate fund or that they had the opportunity to review . each participant of the corporate fund has the right to make proposals on matters included in the agenda of the general meeting . the number of such proposals may not exceed the composition of the supervisory board . proposals by the participants (participant) collectively owning 5 per cent or more of the shares of the corporation fund shall be mandatory included on the agenda . a resolution not to include a proposal by a participant of a corporate fund may be adopted . an appeal filed to the court by the participant of the corporate fund, against the resolution by the supervisory board, shall not cause the suspension of the general meeting . the authorisation of the representative to participate and vote in the general meeting shall not exclude the participation of the participant of the corporate fund, having issued the power of attorney, instead of his/her representative . when voting, the representative must vote strictly as specified in the task of voting, taking into account the interests of the person he/she represents . the registration commission shall have the right to refuse registration to the participant of the corporate fund (his/her representative) only in the absence of the documents of the participant, whereby he is authorised to participate in the general meeting in accordance with the law . the powers of the registry commission may be assigned under the agreement to the depository or the asset management company . participants of the corporate fund and the Commission may appoint representatives to supervise registration of participants . the process of the general meeting or the consideration of a separate matter by resolution may be recorded with technical means . resolutions passed with a simple majority of votes shall be passed unless otherwise stipulated herein . the charter of the corporate fund may establish a higher number of votes required for adopting resolutions on the agenda items . members of the supervisory board shall be elected by a cumulative vote . the resolution of the general meeting on the liquidation of the fixed-term corporate fund before the expiry of the deadline set by the rules shall be adopted by more than three quarters . a bullet must be signed by the participant (representative of the participant) of the corporate fund . in the absence of such signature, be considered invalid; 6) Number of votes held . the form and text of the ballot shall be approved by the supervisory board . a cumulative ballot shall be declared invalid if a participant has indicated on the ballot a higher number of votes than he holds . the Counting commission, which is elected by the general meeting, shall provide clarification on the voting, counting and other matters related to ensuring that the voting takes place . the minutes of the general meeting shall be drawn up within 10 working days of the closure of a general meeting . an extraordinary general meeting may be convened by the supervisory board . the minutes shall be bound, sealed and signed by the chairperson of the supervising board of the corporate fund . a request to convene an extraordinary general meeting shall be submitted in writing . the supervisory board shall pass a resolution convening or refusing the meeting . an extraordinary meeting shall take place within 15 working days of the resolution . resolution of the supervisory board not to convene an extraordinary general meeting may be appealed to the court by the participants of the corporate fund . resolutions of the general meeting on all matters falling within the exclusive competence of the gmt may be adopted by polling method . a notice of such a meeting and other material shall be sent to all participants of a corporate fund at the expense of such participants . resolution to hold the general meeting by polling method must be published in the official printed media of the Commission at least 20 working days before the set date of completion of the receipt of the ballots by the corporate fund . in the absence of certification, the signature of a corporate fund participant, being an individual, shall be considered invalid . the ballot to vote by polling method shall be signed by the chairperson of the supervisory board of the corporate fund . the signature of participant of corporate fund on the ballot may be certified by the depositary, custodian, notary and other notaries and any other officers performing notarial acts or otherwise as provided by law . if the signature is not certified the ballot shall be considered invalid . processing of voting ballots by polling method and counting of the votes fund shall not commence before the set date of the end of receipt by the corporate fund . the participants (participant) of corporate fund shall have the right to control the counting of votes in accordance with its established procedure . the voting results by polling method shall be communicated to the participants of the corporate fund in a time and manner determined by the charter or by the regulation on the general meeting . if a corporate fund consists of one person, the provisions of Articles 19 to 31 hereof shall not apply to such a fund . resolutions of the participant of the corporate fund on matters falling within the competence of the supervisory board shall be made by him in writing (in the form of a resolution, an order, etc.) and certified by the seal of the corporation fund or notary . Article 34. Competence of the Supervisory board 1. The Supervisory Board shall be responsible for: 1) Adoption of resolution to hold ordinary and extraordinary general meetings . a meeting of the supervisory board shall be convened at the initiative of the chairperson . insolvency of the corporate fund; a decrease in the value of net assets by more than 25 per cent compared to the results of the last appraisal . the supervisory board shall be entitled to the meeting if at least half of its members participate . the charter may establish a larger number of members for the recognition of its meetings as competent . Article 38. Early termination of powers of all members of the supervision board and simultaneous election of new members . the charter of the corporate fund may provide additional grounds for terminating the powers of a member of the supervisory board . liquidation of corporate fund shall be carried out on a mandatory basis if the value of its assets is lower than the minimum authorised capital . the liquidation shall take place in accordance with the requirements of the civil code of Ukraine . liquidation on the grounds stipulated by this part shall be carried out by the resolution of the general meeting of the corporate fund . liquidation of a fixed-term corporate fund before the expiry of the term set forth by the rules shall be possible subject to the consent thereto of all its participants . distribution of assets of the corporate fund in the event of its liquidation . liquidation of corporate fund to be carried out as a legal entity . corporate fund, once it is removed from the Register, must carry out all actions related to its termination . the liquidation commission shall establish an intermediate liquidation balance sheet . the liquidation commission shall dispose of the assets of the corporate fund . the proceeds of the disposition shall be distributed as follows: 1) payments are made to the participants of corporate fund who applied to redeem shares prior to the resolution to liquidate corporate fund (other than closed corporate funds) 2) Mandatory payments to the State budget of Ukraine; 3) Creditors' claims are satisfied . the minimum amount of assets of a unit fund shall apply six months after the date of registration of the issuance of its investment certificates . the unit fund is not a legal entity and cannot have an official . rules and prospectus for issue of investment certificates must specify its name and the words "unit investment fund" the asset management company of the unit fund may not perform any act, other than those directed to register the prospectus for issue of its investment certificates . accounting and tax accounting for the operations and results of collective investment activities shall be managed by an asset management firm . the characteristics of the operation of the fund shall be determined by its rules . a participant of the unit fund shall be a legal entity or an individual holding the investment certificate of such fund . a unit fund may be terminated exclusively by liquidation . the liquidation commission to liquidate the fund is established in accordance with the procedure established by the Commission . liquidation of a fixed-term unit fund before the expiry of the term set forth by its rules shall be possible subject to the consent thereto of all its participants . unit fund assets shall be disposed of in accordance with the terms established by the Commission . funds obtained as results of the disposition shall be distributed by the following priority: 1) payments are made to the participants of the unit fund . the liquidation commission of the unit fund shall submit to the Commission documents for the cancellation of the registration of the issue of investment certificates . the value of immovable property and securities not permitted to be traded on the stock exchange may not amount to more than 50 per cent of the total value of a non-diversified collective investment institution . the value of securities not permitted to be traded on the stock exchange may not amount to more than 50 per cent of the total value of the assets of a diversified collective investment institution . it shall be herewith disallowed to invest more than 10 per cent in the securities and liabilities of one bank . the venture fund assets may include debt obligations . the assets of a venture capital fund may consist entirely of funds, immovable property, corporate rights, rights of claim and securities not allowed to be traded on the stock exchange . the assets of a specialised state securities fund may include: 1) Funds in the national and foreign currency; 2) Deposits (in national or foreign currency); 3) Savings (deposit) certificates of the state banks of Ukraine; 4) State securities; 5) Bonds of local loans; 6) Debt securities collaterised by the state or local guarantee; 7) debt securities whose repayment and income are guaranteed by governments of foreign states; 8) issuable debt securities of international financial organisations; 9) derivatives bonds of local loans may not exceed 40 per cent of the total value of the fund’s assets . securities of specialised state securities funds and specialised exchange index funds whose index basket consists exclusively of bonds . bonds of foreign issuers in circulation on foreign stock exchanges, as defined by the Commission, may not be included in a specialised bond fund . specialised shares funds may include: funds in the national and foreign currency; 1) Deposits in the country's currency; 3) Savings (deposit) specialised share funds must meet the following requirements . total value of securities and depository receipts must not exceed 50 per cent . special share funds may not invest more than 15 per cent in one issuer . requirements for the index and its calculation method shall be set by the Commission . the list of banking metals and the procedure for determining their market value shall be established by the National Bank of Ukraine . total liabilities of one bank may not exceed 25 per cent of the total assets of the fund . the securities of the specialised investment funds shall be issued through the public offering only . assets of a collective investment institution may include foreign currency, including that acquired through banks licensed to do so . the value of the net assets of an open collective investment institutions shall be determined at the end of each working day . value of net assets determined by the asset management company . securities of the collective investment institution may only be registered . securities of a corporate fund shall be issued in the book-entry form . the securities of collective investment institutions shall be paid with the funds solely . the paid securities of the collective investment institution shall be credited in the book-entry form to the account of the investor, opened with the custodian . the prospectus for issue of securities shall be subject to compulsory registration with the Commission in the procedure prescribed by the Commission . the prospectus for issue of securities of the collective investment institution shall be signed by the director and the chief accountant of the asset management company . loss incurred due to the submission of unreliable information shall be reimbursed in accordance with the procedure established by law . a prospectus for issue of securities of a collective investment institution or amendments thereto may be refused registration . refusal of the Commission to register the prospectus may be appealed to the courts . within one year of entry of the corporate fund in the Register, the asset management company shall register with the Commission the issue of shares . term for placement of securities of perpetual (termless) collective investment institution shall be unlimited . the requirement on the minimum amount of assets shall apply to a unit fund six months after the date of registration of the issuance of its investment certificates . shares of the corporate fund shall be placed at an estimated value upon registration of their issue . investment certificates of such an institution shall be placed at a price determined in accordance with Article 56 hereof . in the event that a unit fund does not comply with the minimum asset requirement, the Commission shall recognise the issue of its investment certificates as not occurred . all funds received by the unit fund must be returned to the participants of the collective investment institution within one month . the balance of funds shall be returned to the investor upon his or her application on the return of the balance . redemption of securities of the collective investment institution shall be based on the estimated value of the securities . the maximum number of allowances (discounts) shall be established by the Commission . securities trader of securities of the collective investment institution shall act on behalf of, at the expense of and for the benefit of the corporate fund or the asset management company of the unit fund . the period between the payment by the investor of funds and the date of performance by the issuer must not exceed seven working days . redemption of investment certificates of open unit fund shall be carried out every working day . the asset management company of a closed collective investment institution may redeem the securities of such an institution until such institution ceases to operate (early redemption) if the value of the assets of such institution shall not be less than the minimum assets . the placement and redemption of securities of open or interval collective investment institutions shall be suspended . if the placement and redemption of securities of the open or interval collective investment institution is suspended, the asset management company shall inform the depository and the Commission . in the event of a threat of substantial harm to the interests of the participants, the Commission may decide that such a suspension is not justified . the total value of securities acquired by an investor as a result of conversion may not be less than the value of the securities which are withdrawn . the asset management company shall manage the assets of the collective investment institution . securities of closed collective investment institutions shall be subject to free circulation on the securities market . the securities of a corporate fund shall not be subjected to a mandatory listing procedure . a reserve fund shall be formed in the asset management company . the share held by the state in the authorised capital of the company may not exceed 10 per cent . assets of a collective investment institution may not be written off or disposed of free of charge . the restrictions on an asset management company under clauses 5, 7, 9, 10 and 12 of part two of this Article shall not apply to the asset manager of a venture fund . the restrictions are not intended to limit the powers of the asset managers . however, they are intended to restrict the power of an asset manager to exercise its powers in accordance with the law . the remuneration to the asset management company shall be defined as a percentage of the value of net assets . revocation of a licence held by an asset management firm shall be the ground for the liquidation of the unit fund . the agm company shall not be liable for any loss resulting from the failure to perform its duties under this Law . assets of collective investment institution in the form of securities maintained by the depository system shall be held in the securities account of the custodian . the assets of a corporate fund or an asset management company of unit fund of private placement shall not be included in the liquidation estate . a collective investment company shall be liable for violation of the requirements of the legislation, rules, prospectus for issue of securities . collective investment institution (other than a venture fund) must have a credit rating at least equal to the investment level, determined by an authorised or recognised international rating agency on the National Rating Scale . the custodian of the assets of the collective investment . institution shall carry out activities in accordance with the law, the charter and the service agreement . the custodian of the assets of the collective investment institution shall inform the supervisory board of the corporate fund or the asset management company of the unit fund of any activity . in the event of failure to comply with these requirements, the cii shall be liable for damages caused to the participants . Article 70. Servicing the funds 1. The corporate fund's funds are credited to its bank account. the funds of the unit fund shall be credited to a separate account of the asset management company in the bank . the bank, which acts as the custodian of the assets of the collective investment institution, may perform the day-to-day servicing of the accounts . the property appraiser of the collective investment institution shall appraise the property in accordance with the agreement entered into between the appraiser and the asset management company . the audit of the results of the activities of the assets management company shall be carried out in conformity with the requirements set by the law of the depositary system . Article 73. Audit of the annual financial statements . agreement with the custodian of the assets of the collective investment institution . agreement may not limit the obligations of the depositary system . information on collective investment institutions shall be disclosed in the procedure established by the law . the asset management company shall provide the participants of the collective investment institution with an annual report on the activities of such institution . information which is mandatory hereunder for publication shall not be confidential . the disclosure of information provided for in this Article shall be made by the assets management company and the securities trader providing services . collective investment activities shall be regulated by the state and by the self-regulating organisation of professional stock market participant . the state regulation over collective investment shall be carried out by the Commission . collective investment institutions shall be obliged to disclose on their website the information provided for in part two of this Article . this Law shall enter into force on 1 January 2014, with the exception of clauses 8 and 9 of Article 48 . the following legislative acts of Ukraine shall be amended: Article 163 of the Commercial Code of Ukraine, nos. 18-22, art. 144; part four of Article 152 of the Civil Code shall be supplemented by paragraph two to read as follows: "shares in the corporate investment fund" clauses 3 and 4 of clause 3 of this section shall be deemed repealed . "collective investment institutions" may not be founders of a bank and owners of substantial participation . the decision to convert shall be taken by the relevant body of the issuer . issuer shall be obliged to redeem convertible securities to holders who disagree . redemption of securities from holders who disagree to the conversion shall be made at market value, but not less than the nominal value of such securities . the peculiarities of securities conversion of the collective investment institution shall be established by the legislation on collective investment institutions . shares in a corporate investment fund shall be only common and shall be issued in the book-entry form . asset management companies, collective investment institutions, custodians are obliged to bring their activities into conformity with this Law within one year from the date of entry into force of this Law . the requirements of part two of Article 4 hereof shall not apply to individuals who have acquired ownership to securities of venture fund prior to the entrance into force . it shall be prohibited to extend the term of agreements on the sale and purchase of securities of the collective investment institution . if the number of participants of the unit investment fund does not exceed 500 persons, the register of investment certificate holders may be maintained . corporate investment funds shall be exempted from payment of the registration fee when registering amendments to the charter of the fund . close investment funds and closed mutual funds of investment companies shall carry out their activities in accordance with the Regulations . provisions of the Law of Ukraine "On collective Investment Institutions" regarding the time limits of the annual general meeting of the corporate fund shall not apply in 2020 . however, holding of the general meeting in 2020 within time limits set hereby during the quarantine period shall not be deemed a violation of this law . national commission on securities and stock market shall be deemed its publication on the official website of the National Commission on Securities and Stock Market . provisions of Article 75 of the Law of Ukraine "On collective Investment Institutions" in part of time limits for the disclosure of the annual report of the collective investment institution for 2019 shall not apply in 2020 .