law defines legal grounds for activities in the field of cinematography . it regulates social relations associated with the making, distributing, storing and screening of films . film-maker – the cinematographic entity responsible for film-making . state film fund carries out archival and scientific research activities . shooting period of film-making – shooting of the film project . foreign cinematographic entity – legal entity created or registered in compliance with the legislation of a foreign state with the residence outside Ukraine . the main (basic) version of the speech part of the audio is created in Ukrainian or Crimean Tatar language . if justified by artistic, creative intention of the film authors, it is allowed to use other languages in the amount which cannot exceed 10 per cent of the total duration of all film participants' lines . entrepreneurship in cinematography – the activity related to making, distributing, screening (public display) of films for the purpose of gaining a profit . film distributor (releaser) – cinematographic entity which has the right to distribute the film; film promotion – dissemination of information about the film . film participant – an individual who took part in the creation of the film, which was made and/or first made public (demonstrated) after 1991 . main principles of cinematography are: strengthening the ideas of humanity, universal human, national cultural and spiritual values . film copy – a specimen made with the use of film source materials . cinematographic entities shall carry out entrepreneurial activity in the field of cinematography according to the legislation of Ukraine . fostering charity work; facilitating amateur creative work; co-operation with foreign and international associations, funds, etc. provisions about the producer system in the field of cinematography shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . all cinematographic entities which are engaged in making, distributing and screening of films shall be entered in the State Register of Makers, Distributors and Exhibitors of Films . elaborating proposals concerning legal acts, acts of the president of Ukraine and the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine, regulatory acts of ministries . carrying out the function of state supervision (oversight) in the field of cinematography according to the legislation . film commissions can be created in the manner established by law for the purpose of providing Ukrainian and/or foreign cinematographic entities with consultative, organisational and other assistance not prohibited by the law . functions of the film commission shall include, in particular, providing the assistance in obtaining permits for film shooting . state film studios is an economic organisation, the main member (shareholder) of which is the state . within the limits established by the corresponding local budgets, local governments can provide for the procedure for partial coverage of the expenses of cinematographic entities for film-making . the state film studio cannot change the status of the cinematographic entity as a result of privatisation . films shall fall into the following types: films, television films, video films, filmstrips, slide films and others which can be fiction, animated (cartoon), non-fiction films, etc . the scoring system for national films shall be based on the following criteria: author of the idea – 1; scriptwriter – 2; character animator - 2; composer - 1 . the number of points according to the evaluative element “producer” shall be defined with the consideration of the coefficient calculated as the ratio of number of film producers with the citizenship of Ukraine or located within the territory of Ukraine . if the film is classified as a national one according to this Law, the central executive authority implementing the state policy in sphere of cinematography shall issue the certificate of the national film . the procedure for issuing the certificate of the national film shall be defined by the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state policy in the sphere of cinematography . the scoring system for national films provides for scoring, according to the evaluative elements, of at least 18 points by fiction films, 8 points by non-fiction films, 15 points by animated (cartoon) films . use of the state or other languages in film distribution and screening is determined by the Law of Ukraine “On Ensuring the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as the State Language” the procedure for film distribution shall be determined by agreement concluded between the film distributor with film authors or an individual having exclusive rights to the film . the right to distribute and screen national and foreign films on all types of image carriers shall be conferred to cinematographic entities . state certificate on the right to distribute and screen films can be revoked and the state registration of the film can be cancelled . the List of persons posing threat to the national security shall be made by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the spheres of culture and art . distributing and screening of films containing popularisation of aggressor state's authorities . films must justify or recognise the occupation of Ukraine's territory as legitimate . negative film characters include employees (including former and freelance) of the aggressor . film plot is directly or indirectly connected with the activity of Soviet state security authorities, and this activity is presented positively in the film . films prohibited from distributing and screening within the territory of Ukraine solely by virtue of their features defined in Article 15-1 of this Law shall not be issued . distribution and screening of films stated in part 1 of this Article shall entail the application of administrative and economic sanctions to economic agents involved in such distribution and/or screening . other film exhibitors other than television organisations shall be obliged to screen national films, other films made by cinematographic entities of Ukraine . archival set of film source materials, source materials of the film made completely or partially at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine, as well as film copies shall be stored in the State Film Fund of Ukraine . the state shall take care of storing and facilitate the consolidation of film collections (funds) of establishments of different forms of ownership . co-operation with domestic and foreign film archives shall be maintained by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the sphere of cinematography . Ukrainian cinematographic entities shall consist in the joint making of films with other countries, distribution of national films outside Ukraine and other states’ films inside Ukraine . international treaties, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, shall be incorporated into the law . if rules other than those provided for in this Law and other regulatory acts are established by the international treaty ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, the rules of that treaty shall be applied . the legal entity that distributed and/or screened the film, where one of the participants is a person specified in part 3 of Article 15 of this Law, shall bear administrative and economic responsibility .