this Law regulates the relations between the executive authorities, food market operators, and food consumers . it defines the procedure for ensuring the safety and certain quality indices of food produced, marketed, imported (transferred) into the customs territory of Ukraine . “clean seawater” means natural, artificial or purified seawater that does not contain any polluting micro-organisms or toxic marine plankton in quantities capable of directly or indirectly affecting the food suitability . “potable water” means a foodstuff suitable for human consumption; “hygienic requirements” means measures and conditions necessary for the hazard management and ensuring food suitability for humans . “contaminants” means any biological substances, including organisms, micro-organisms and their parts, or chemical substances, foreign impurity or other substance . “final consumer” means a consumer using a foodstuff exclusively for his/her own consumption . "corrective action” means an action determined and carried out to eliminate causes of detected non-conformity . “small facilities” means facilities that supply food to the final consumer . “hazardous food” means a foodstuff harmful for health and/or unsuitable for consumption . the hazard of a food shall be taken into account: usual conditions of use . if the food is intended for a particular category of consumers, it may be harmful . "improperly labelled foodstuff" means a food which labelling does not meet the requirements of the legislation . "newest foods ... must be evaluated in terms of its impact on the consumer health" "equipment and implements" means equipment, machinery, kitchen appliances, cutlery, tools and other means which come into direct contact with the food . “food market operator” means an economic entity operating with or without the purpose of gaining profit . “lot” means any quantity of a foodstuff with the same name and properties which is determined by a market operator and produced at the same facilities . 62) “primary products” means products of primary production, including products of soil, of stock farming, of hunting and fishing . “plant products” means mushrooms, berries, vegetables, fruits and other foodstuffs of plant origin intended for human consumption . “traceability” means an ability to identify the market operator, time, place, subject and other terms of supply (sale or transfer) sufficient to establish the origin of food, food-producing animals, or substances intended to be, or expected to be incorporated into food . sanitary or phytosanitary measures include, inter alia, all regulatory acts concerning food safety, animal health and plant quarantine . "hazard analysis and critical control points (HACCP)" means a system that identifies, evaluates, and controls hazards that are determinative of food safety . “technical regulation” means a regulatory act adopted by a decision of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . technical regulation may also contain requirements for terminology, designations, packaging, marking, and labelling applied to a particular product, process, or production method . in case of absence of technical regulation regarding a certain subject of regulation, the technical regulation of the European Union is applied, if available . "foodstuffs" include beverages (as well as potable water), chewing gum, and any other substance intentionally incorporated into a foodstuff . "food for special medical purposes" means a specially designed and produced product that is consumed under medical supervision . “food of animal origin” means milk, meat, fish, shellfish, crustacean, including fresh, chilled or frozen, eggs, honey, their derivatives . the terms “label”, “ingredient” and “labelling” shall apply in this Law in the meanings outlined in the Law of Ukraine “On Information for Consumers on Foodstuffs” and other acts issued in accordance with the specified regulatory acts . research (testing) techniques and the procedure for sampling are binding only if it is stipulated by the law . section II POWERS OF CENTRAL EXECUTIVE AUTHORITIES IN THE FIELD OF FOOD SAFETY AND CERTAIN FOOD QUALITY INDICES, LABORATORY STUDIES Article 5: system of executive authorities in the field of food safety and certain food quality indices . central executive authority that forms and ensures the implementation of the state health policy shall establish adequate level of human health protection . central executive authority that forms and ensures the implementation of the state policy in the field of food safety and certain food quality indices shall approve hygienic requirements for the food production and circulation . relevant sanitary measures shall be developed, reviewed, and approved . sanitary measures shall not be more trade-restrictive than required to achieve an adequate level of human health protection . proposals that are not in line with international standards, or for which no international standards exist, shall be notified . comments received after the communication and publication of proposed new or amended sanitary measure shall be taken into account before adopting such measures . sanitary measures shall be applied only to the extent required to protect human health . requirements for certain food quality indices shall not be more trade-restrictive than required to achieve an adequate level of consumer protection . changes in requirements shall be published in the relevant official gazette and come into force no earlier than nine months following their publication. market operators shall have the right to receive from the competent authority in the prescribed manner documents resulting from the state control of facilities and objects of sanitary measures administered by the market operator . the certificate (assignment) for the control measure shall specify: the name of the competence authority; the name and location of market operator or, in case of individual entrepreneurs, place of residence . market operators shall be responsible for compliance with the legal requirements on food safety and certain food quality indices within the scope of activities they perform . the market operator shall undertake to: a) provide a copy of the certificate (assignment) and the official identity card certifying the official of the competent authority . a market operator must ensure compliance with the requirements of this Law for food hygiene . it must also develop, enact and apply permanent procedures based on the HACCP principles . if the market operator believes that the foodstuffs it has imported (transferred) into the customs territory of Ukraine do not meet the safety requirements, it must immediately initiate the withdrawal . market operators shall develop, implement and use permanent procedures based on the HACCP principles . requirements of part 1 of this Article shall not apply to market operators performing primary production and related activities . the market operator shall identify hazards that must be prevented, eliminated or reduced to an acceptable level . the requirements for the development, implementation and use of permanent procedures based on the HACCP principles shall allow for a simplified approach . this applies to retail establishments, concession stands, kiosks, stalls, mobile vehicles intended for trading, as well as public catering establishments . market operators shall be able to identify other market operators supplying them with foodstuffs and other objects of sanitary measures on a “one step back” principle . traceability requirements shall not require market operators to establish a link (so-called internal traceability) between the objects of hygiene measures used in the production and the objects obtained as a result of such production . in case of application of visual monitoring procedures, records should be kept only in cases of detected non-compliance . market operators shall apply systems and procedures ensuring that such information is available to the competent authority on its requests . a foodstuff may be marketed only if its label contains an indication identifying the lot to which it belongs . the lot shall be determined in each case by the market operator that is the producer, processor or packager . an operational permit shall be obtained by market operators engaged in activities related to the production and/or storage of food of animal origin . obligation to obtain permit shall not apply to the relevant types of activities of market operators . market operator shall apply for obtaining an operational permit specifying the name, identification code according to the unified state register of legal entities, individual entrepreneurs and public formations . the place of residence of the market operator, the name (description) of the facility, its address, the planned type of activities and the list of foodstuffs to be produced or stored . no later than 15 calendar days from the date of receipt by the territorial body of the competent authority of the application . a payment (administrative fee) shall be charged for the operational permit or renewal of its validity . the reissuance and issuance of a duplicate of an operational permit shall be free of charge . in case of reconstruction, the market operator shall apply for an unscheduled inspection of the facility . if the market operator fails to comply with the requirements of the regulation or other administrative document, the Chief State Inspector shall issue a resolution on suspension of the operational permit . a vehicle used as a facility to sell foodstuffs to final consumers shall be subject to state registration . in case of suspension, the information about it shall be published by the competent authority on its official website within 3 working days . an individual registration number shall be assigned to facilities in the register . a change in the name of a facility operator shall not be the ground for making changes to the facility register with regard to the new name of such operator . no later than 10 calendar days before commencing the facility operation, the market operator shall submit (send) an application for state registration of the facility . market operator shall have the right to commence the operation of the facility on the principle of tacit consent . the competent authority shall ensure open and free access to the state register of facilities of market operators . export facilities shall be approved if required by the country of destination . the competent authority shall maintain a register of approved export facilities . the register shall indicate the country of destination and each type of foodstuff . in case of non-compliance with the declared requirements, the chief state inspector informs competent authority thereof . the sale of objects of sanitary measures that are not registered shall be prohibited . new foodstuffs; food additives; flavourings shall be subject to state registration . registration of other objects not referred to in part 2 of this Article shall be prohibitive . the procedure, methods and scope of necessary studies (tests) for the state registration shall take into account the degree of risk for human health . the central executive authority that forms and ensures the implementation of the state health policy shall approve procedures for state registration, maintenance of registers and provision of information from such registers to interested entities . only food additives included in the State Register of Food Additives shall be used in the production of foodstuffs . a food additive may be registered only if there is a reasonable technological need for it . a decision on registration or refusal in registration of the food additive shall be taken within 120 working days after receipt of the application . processing aids and materials in contact with foodstuffs and of potable water shall be registered . processing aids and materials in contact with foodstuffs circulated in Ukraine shall not cause the presence of hazards . in the case of potable water planned to be categorised as “natural mineral water” state registration may be refused if there is evidence of non-compliance . food additives that are not registered in Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of this Law . flavourings, processing aids and materials in contact with foodstuffs must also be registered . enterprises included in the register of exporters shall be forbidden to use raw materials obtained by slaughtering animals . draft methodological guidelines shall be returned to the developer within 10 working days . it shall be prohibited to slaughter animals without a veterinary document certifying the health of animals . since 1 January 2025, products obtained from slaughtering in slaughterhouses that have no operational permit may be used exclusively for domestic consumption . whole carcasses of even-toed ungulates, poultry, rabbits and small wild animals, fish, honey, eggs, raw milk, home-made cheese and plant products may be sold on agri-food markets . suitability for human consumption of products of plant origin, as well as raw milk and homemade cheese, shall be confirmed by a state inspector . a foodstuff that is unsuitable but does not pose an immediate threat (low risk) to human health shall be withdrawn by the owner  circulation of foodstuffs at facilities that do not meet the requirements of sanitary measures shall be prohibited . the prohibition shall also be imposed on the circulation of hazardous, unsuitable for consumption, improperly labelled and imported (transferred) into the territory of Ukraine by smuggling . the newest foodstuff or ingredient shall be as follows: 1) it does not pose a threat to human health; 2) its characteristics are not misleading to consumers; 3) the amount of nutrients and other substances, the energy that consumers will receive under normal conditions of its consumption will not differ from those obtained from the conventional ones . the term "history of safe consumption" means data on the consumption of a foodstuff or ingredient as part of the routine food of the population . "significant change and/or effect" shall mean a change or effect that exceeds by more than 100 per cent the values of normal (i.e. previously encountered) variations . potable water of any origin in any containers shall not belong to the newest food products . provisions of this Article shall not apply to the newest foodstuff containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified organisms . market operators engaged in animal breeding, hunting, or primary production of animal products must take measures to ensure the safety of primary products . they must also ensure the health of plants and animals that affect human health . hygienic requirements for facilities 1. Facilities used for the production and/or circulation of foodstuffs shall meet the following requirements . market operators engaged in animal breeding, hunting, or primary production of animal products shall keep records of the type and origin of feed . facilities shall be designed to prevent the mechanical airflow from the contaminated area from entering the clean area . hygienic requirements for premises where foodstuffs are treated or processed . design and layout of premises shall ensure possibility of complying with appropriate level of food hygiene . ceiling, walls and floor of premises should be made of impermeable, non-absorbing and washable materials . the provisions of this Article shall not apply to market operators referred to in Articles 43 and 44 of this Law . mobile and/or temporary facilities (concession stands, kiosks, stalls, mobile vehicles intended for trading) shall comply with the following requirements: be kept clean and in a safe repair; ensure protection from any risk of contamination . liquid, granular, powdered foodstuffs are transported in reservoirs and/or containers/tanks . market operators shall use equipment and implements in contact with food that meet the following requirements . cleaning and disinfection shall be carried out so as to ensure protection against the risk of contamination . non-potable water used in fire-fighting systems, for steam production, freezing, and other purposes shall circulate in a separate, clearly identified water line . ice that is in contact with foodstuffs and may cause their contamination shall be made of potable water or, if used for cooling fishery products, of clean water . market operators shall comply with the following hygienic requirements for facility personnel working in the food handling area . hygienic requirements for food packaging, including wrapping, must not be a source of contamination . market operators must comply with the following requirements when packaging and wrapping foodstuffs . heat treatment of foods must be carried out in a way that does not entail a risk to the consumer health . citizens of Ukraine, foreigners and stateless persons shall be prohibited to import to the territory of Ukraine foodstuffs of animal origin . international certificates for consignments with certain types of food of non-animal origin shall be issued in the form agreed by the competent authority of Ukraine . unless otherwise established by law, international certificate for consignment with food of non-animal origin shall be issued by the state inspector . international cooperation of Ukraine in the field of food safety and certain food quality indices shall be carried out by participating in the work of relevant international organisations . administrative services shall include: 1) state registration of: newest foodstuffs; food additives; flavourings . president of Ukraine l. kuchma city of kyiv 23 . december 1997 no. 771/97-VR .