citizens of Ukraine shall have the right to file observations, complaints and proposals . appeals of depositors to the Deposit Guarantee Fund shall be considered in accordance with the procedure determined by the legislation on the deposit guarantee system . appeals shall mean citizens’ appeals with a request to promote the exercise of their rights and interests enshrined by the Constitution and current legislation . an oral appeal shall be filed by a citizen at a personal reception or by telephone communication through certain contact centres, telephone “hot lines” and shall be recorded (registered) by an official . appeal must contain the surname, given name and patronymic, place of residence . an appeal executed without compliance with these requirements shall be returned . Appeals for free legal aid shall be considered in accordance with the procedure provided for by law . unless issues raised in the appeal received by a government authority, local government, enterprises, institutions, organisations or officials fall within their powers, they shall forward such an appeal, within no more than five days, to a relevant authority or official . it is prohibited to send citizens’ complaints for consideration to the authorities or officials whose actions or decisions are appealed . repeated appeals to the same authority from the same citizen on the same issue shall not be considered if the first one has been resolved . it shall not be allowed to disclose information obtained from appeals about private life of citizens without their consent or information being a state or other secret protected by law . at the citizen’s request, anything expressed orally or specified in the text of an appeal, his/her name, place of residence and employment shall not . be disclosed . Appeals received by citizens’ associations contained observations and proposals on their activity shall be considered by such associations . a citizen may file a complaint personally or through a duly authorised person . a decision to deny satisfaction of the demands set forth in an application (motion) must be brought to the notice of the citizen in writing . a complaint in the interests of a citizen following his/her authorisation may be filed by another person, labour collective or organisation carrying out the activity on protecting human rights advocacy . specific aspects of considering citizens’ complaints against decisions, actions or inaction of state registrars of corporeal rights to real estate shall be determined by the law of Ukraine . citizens’ associations, media, officials have the right: to personally submit arguments to a person who checked the filed complaint or application . a citizen has the right to receive a written response following the results of considering the application or complaint . he/she can demand compensation for losses if they resulted from violations of the determined procedure for considering the appeals . government authorities, local governments, enterprises, institutions, organisations irrespective of the form of ownership, citizens’ associations, media, their heads and other officials must, within their competence, verify the applications or complaints . appeals shall be considered and resolved within no more than one month after receiving them . if it is impossible to resolve the issues raised in the appeal within one month, the head of a relevant authority, enterprise, institution, organisation or his/her deputy shall set the necessary deadline . the procedure for receiving citizens shall be determined by their heads . the results of consideration shall be communicated to a citizen in writing or orally . citizens may file electronic petitions with the president, the verkhovna rada of Ukraine, the cabinet of ministers of ukraine, local governments . the electronic petition may not contain calls to overthrow the constitutional order, infringing the territorial integrity of Ukraine . electronic petition shall be published within two business days after it is sent by the author (initiator) if electronic petition fails to comply with set requirements, such a petition shall not be published . relevant government authorities, local governments and public associations must, ensure during gathering of signatures in support of the electronic petition . electronic petition shall be sent by a public association to an authority to which the petition addressed no later than the next day . information about the commencement of consideration of an electronic petition, which obtained the required number of signatures in support thereof, shall be published on the official website of the President of Ukraine . if the electronic petition contains a request for consideration thereof at the parliamentary hearings in the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine or public hearings of a relevant territorial community, an author (initiator) of support or non-support of an electronic petition shall be publicly announced on the official website of the president of Ukraine . a response to the petition shall contain the results of considering the issues raised in with relevant justification . information about the number of signatures obtained in support of the electronic petition and deadlines for gathering them shall be kept for at least three years . a citizen may be compensated for the non-pecuniary damages caused by illegal actions or decisions of an authority or official during the consideration of a complaint . the amount of compensation in monetary terms shall be determined by court . citizens' associations and their officials, heads and other officials of enterprises, institutions and organisations shall be liable .