this Law defines the main legal, economic, and organisational bases of the activities of the public railway system . it regulates its relations with executive authorities, local self-government bodies, passengers, consignors and consignees . railway transport shall mean a production and technological complex of railway undertakings designed to meet the needs of public production . railway transport is one of the most important basic sectors of the Ukrainian economy . railway transport enterprises must carry passengers and cargo in a timely and high-quality manner . transport process in domestic and international traffic is managed centrally . state-owned objects that are not included in the authorised capital of JSC Ukrzaliznytsia, and its shares, are managed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . main-line railroads of public use and placed on them technological structures, transmitting devices, are state property . the land provided for the needs of railway transport is determined in accordance with the Land Code of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine "On Transport". security zones are established to ensure the proper operation of railway tracks, power supply and communication lines . local executive authorities and local governments are responsible for improving station forecourts, constructing and streamlining entrances to railway stations . railway transport management authorities address issues of operation of inactive unprofitable railway sections, stations, as well as railway access tracks . railway has the right to close inactive unprofitable sections, stations, and railway access roads . transport of cargo, passengers, baggage, freight baggage and post by public railway system is organised on a contractual basis . tariffs for transportation of passengers and baggage in suburban traffic are set by JSC Ukrzaliznytsia . tariffs for transit transportation are set by JSC Ukrzaliznytsia . to protect the interests of certain categories of citizens, preferential tariffs may be provided . railway revenues for the transportation of goods and passengers in direct traffic are formed . construction and renovation of main-line railroads, mobilisation facilities, purchase of railway rolling stock for passenger transportation in long-distance and local trains are carried out in accordance with the established procedure . purchase of electric trains and diesel trains for commuter services shall be at the expense of JSC Ukrzaliznytsia . settlements of consignors and consignees of cargo, freight baggage, and post with public railway undertakings, additional fees for cargo operations and use of rolling stock are made rail traffic safety is a set of organisational and technical measures aimed at ensuring trouble-free operation and maintaining railways structures, tracks, equipment, machinery, and installations in continuous operation . location of facilities associated with the production, storage, handling, transportation of explosive, flammable, radioactive substances and materials is regulated by relevant construction and sanitary standards . locations where railway tracks are crossed by pipelines, communication and power lines must be coordinated with the JSC Ukrzaliznytsia . JSC Ukrzaliznytsia is entitled to impose, in consultation with the central executive authority of the regulatory authority in the field of transport, temporary restrictions on transportation in certain areas . the railway undertakings shall create jobs for disabled persons in the amount of four percent of the number of employees engaged in auxiliary and subsidiary works . employees of the public railway system and their family members (dependants) shall be entitled to free travel by railway . the procedure and conditions for the provision of these and other benefits are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, collective agreements and treaties . employees who have been transferred to another job due to the loss of employment or professional illness or if they have been retired due to disability or age shall enjoy the right . enterprises of the public railway system act as entities engaged in foreign economic activities . transportation of cargo and passengers is regulated by the effective laws of Ukraine and the international treaties of Ukraine . railway undertakings have the right to set boundaries of hazardous areas, recover fines against consignors and consignees and ensure the safety of the goods transported . carriages are obliged to ensure: timely and quality transportation of passengers, cargo, baggage, freight baggage, and mail; development of the infrastructure of the public railway system, transportation services . the passenger is obliged to have properly executed documents required for entering the country of destination, the en-route countries, and present them to the carrier at its request . the carrier's repudiation of the international passenger railway transportation contract who failed to provide the documents specified in Part 2 of this Article shall not oblige the carrier to reimburse the passenger any associated damage . loss incurred in case of violation of uninterrupted operation and traffic safety at public railways shall be reimbursed by guilty legal entities and individuals . procedures and term for drawing up certificates, filing, consideration of complaints and claims are determined by the Railroad Regulations of Ukraine in accordance with the laws of Ukraine .