advertising producer – a person who fully or partially performs the production of advertising . advertising events – events on the dissemination of advertising that provide for the free distribution of samples of advertised goods . political advertising means the use of symbols or logos of political parties (party organisations) advertising that contains comparisons with other persons and/or goods (activities) of another person . hidden advertising – information about a person or goods in a programme, broadcasting, publication which serves advertising targets . this Law shall regulate relations connected with the production, dissemination and consumption of advertising within the territory of Ukraine. this Law shall not apply to advertising of individuals not related to business activities . it shall be prohibited to submit any advertising information about the sponsor and/or his goods except for his name or denomination and his trademark for goods and services . TV sales shall be subject to the requirements established by parts 3–5, Article 13 of this Law on the peculiarities of advertising on television . restrictions on the broadcasting time and TV sales share during the clock hour shall not be applied to broadcasting channels specialised in TV sales . language of advertising shall be the state language . advertising shall not undermine the confidence of the society in advertising and shall comply with fair competition principles . advertising shall take into consideration a particular sensitiveness of children and shall not cause damage to them . it shall be prohibited in advertising to: disseminate information about goods whose production, circulation or importation to the customs territory of Ukraine are prohibited by law . advertising disseminators shall not distribute advertising if according to the legislation advertised types of activities or goods, their production or sale requires the availability of the relevant permit or licence . advertising of discounts for products and clearance sale shall contain information about the place and date of the beginning and finishing of the discounts . placement of advertising and/or advertising means on supporting, support members and other elements of the overhead contact system, on means and equipment (including supports) of external lighting, shall be prohibited . advertising in television and radio broadcastings, programmes shall be clearly separated from other information so that it could be identified as advertising . comparative advertising shall contain images, references to goods, trademarks or other markings under which the goods to be compared are produced . advertising shall not contain features of the unfair business practices established by the legislation on the protection of consumer rights . the responsibility for unlawful comparison in advertising shall be imposed on the advertiser . advertising of national films shall be put on the same footing as social advertising and be placed and disseminated given that it observes the requirements established by paragraph 12, part 1, Article 8 of this Law . advertising on television and radio shall not exceed 15 per cent during each clock hour of the actual broadcasting . broadcasting of programmes for children (given that they last not more than 30 minutes) and news programmes shall not be interrupted by advertising . advertising in programmes and broadcastings of foreign TV and radio companies transmitted (retransmitted) to the territory of Ukraine shall be prohibited . the printed area allotted for political advertising in printed mass media during an election campaign, including advertising ones, shall not exceed 20 per cent of each issue of an edition or its supplement . advertising of services rendered with the use of electric communications, including telephony, by its dissemination in advertising means shall contain accurate information about contents of an advertised service . external advertising shall be performed based on permits issued by executive authorities of the rural, village, municipal councils . placement of external advertising within road rights of way shall be carried out under this Law based on specified permits that are issued through the central executive authorities . external advertising on the territories, buildings and structures shall be placed by consent of their owners or bodies (persons) authorised by them . placement of internal advertising shall be prohibited in the premises of government authorities and local government, of infant, secondary general and specialised educational establishments . advertising on transport shall comply with the safety measures and traffic rules requirements . the prohibition shall be imposed on advertising with the use of images of children who consume or use the products assigned only for adults . advertising of medicines, medical equipment, methods of prevention, diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation shall not contain images of children in dangerous situations . advertising shall not imply the possibility of purchasing advertised goods, designed mainly for children, by every family without consideration for its budget capacity . it shall be prohibited to advertise medicines that are used and dispensed on a doctor’s prescription . advertising of medicines, medical equipment, methods of prevention, diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation shall not contain information that may give the impression that under the condition of taking medicines or using medical equipment the professional advice is not necessary . it shall be prohibited in advertising to submit information suggesting that the medicine is an edible, cosmetic or other consumer product . advertising of new methods of prevention, diagnostics, rehabilitation, and medicines that are under consideration following the established procedure but are not approved for use yet . advertising of traditional medicine (healing) and people providing them shall be permitted only if there is a relevant special permit . veterinary drug product advertising shall be carried out only upon its state registration in Ukraine . advertising of drug products for veterinary use that are dispensed on a doctor's prescription shall be prohibited . advertising of medicated feeds and intermediate products of such feeds shall not be permitted . dissemination for advertising purposes of samples of antimicrobial drug products, including among veterinary professionals, shall be forbidden . advertising of alcoholic beverages, trademarks for goods and services, other intellectual property rights shall be prohibited . advertising on radio and television from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m; on front and back pages of newspapers, magazine covers and other publications; on exteriors and interiors of public transport vehicles and metro stations . shall not make an impression that smoking or alcohol consumption is an important factor for being successful . advertising of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, trademarks for goods and services under which tobacco products are produced shall be prohibited . advertising of any goods or services shall not contain images of tobacco products or the process of smoking tobacco products . it shall be permitted to sponsor TV, radio broadcastings, theatre and concert, sports and other events with the use of trademarks . advertising of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages shall be accompanied with warnings: “smoking may cause cancer”, “alcohol abuse causes damage to your health” each warning shall be given at least 15 per cent of the total area (amount) of advertising . advertising of gambling, trademarks for goods and services under which gambling activities are carried out shall be prohibited . advertising of gambling shall not make an opinion that it is easy to win a gamble nor that gambling may be a source of income or an alternative to working . it shall be prohibited to involve persons under 21 years of age, including photo models . each warning shall be given at least 15 per cent of the total area of advertising . advertising of weapons shall be carried out only in relevant specialised publications for weapons or directly in the premises of commercial establishments (enterprises) selling weapons . advertising in the field of financial services shall be advertising of: the financial institution or another person that according to the law has the right to provide financial services, and its activities . advertising of financial services, provision of which is prohibited by law on the territory of Ukraine . it shall be prohibited in advertising job vacancies (recruitment) to indicate the age of applicants, offer a job only to women or men, representatives of a particular race, skin colour . advertising of securities and stock market shall be advertising information about joint investment institutions, securities that are being issued and/or issuance securities that were circulating . in case of the breach of requirements stipulated by this Article, the advertisers shall pay to the Fund of Compulsory State Social Insurance of Unemployment a fine in the amount of tenfold of the minimum wage established by law . government authorities shall not be allowed to disseminate advertising of securities and the stock market, except for advertising related to the dissemination and circulation of government securities . advertising of goods and/or services of the professional stock market traders shall contain information about the availability of the licence confirming the right to carry out relevant activities . a decision on the prohibition for dissemination of advertising (amendments to advertising) of securities and stock market shall be taken by the relevant person stating the grounds . the relevant decision of the National Commission on Securities and Stock Market shall be published on its official website within one working day and sent to the advertiser . if the breach of legislation on advertising is detected, the National Commission on Securities and Stock Market shall take a decision to suspend dissemination of relevant advertising . advertising of construction projects, buildings, premises shall be permitted only in case the construction project owner has rights of ownership or use for the land plot where the advertised object is constructed . such advertising, except for radio, shall contain details of documents specified by this part. advertising of buildings with an energy certificate to sell or lease (rent) them shall contain an energy efficiency indicator specified in the relevant certificate . advertisers, producers and disseminators of advertising shall provide documents, verbal and/or written clarifications, video and audio recordings . government authorities shall inform advertisers, advertising producers and disseminators on the consideration of cases for the breach of legislative requirements on advertising . responsibility for breach of legislation on advertising shall be imposed on: advertisers guilty of: ordering advertising of products the production and/or circulation of which are prohibited by law . government authorities specified in Article 26 of this Law may appeal to the court with claims on the prohibition of relevant advertising and its public refutation . repeated commission of the listed breaches within a year entails the imposition of a fine in the double amount of the size stipulated for these breaches . value of disseminated advertising shall be determined based on agreed (contract) value, excluding the amount of deposited (charged) taxes, duties (compulsory payments) established by the Tax Code of Ukraine . antimonopoly committee of Ukraine shall impose a penalty on advertisers . decision on cases of the breach of legislation on advertising may be appealed in court . part 1 of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 21 January 1993 No. 7–93 “On state duty” has been supplemented with clause 46 of the following content: “46) specially authorised central executive authority in the field of consumer rights protection and its territorial offices”