the law defines the legal basis for protecting business entities and consumers from unfair competition . it applies to activities in which business entities participate in relation to unfair competition, including cases of such actions committed outside Ukraine . the use of an individual's own name as a brand name is not considered illegitimate . introduction to the market of a product from another manufacturer under one's own brand name without the permission of an authorized person is illegal . if copying of product appearance or parts thereof is attributed solely to its functional use, such copying is not considered illegitimate . bribing of supplier's employee, acting official shall be understood as giving or offering to a supplier employee material or other types of benefits . any other person being under authority to make decisions on the buyer's behalf on purchase of goods, carrying out works, rendering services, or being otherwise involved with the buyer shall be placed on the same footing as that customer's official . instigation of the supplier to discriminate against the buyer (customer), directly or indirectly or via third parties . gaining illegitimate competitive advantages shall be understood as having such advantages in relation to another business entity by violating current legislation . statements are considered as misleading information if they contain incomplete, inaccurate or false data about the origin of the product, the manufacturer, seller, method of manufacturing, sources and method of purchase and sales . a business entity that committed actions that are defined by this Law as unfair competition shall be imposed with a fine for up to five per cent of income (revenue) from sales of products (goods, works, services) of such business entity for the last reporting year that preceded the year in which the fine is imposed . in case of committing violations stipulated by Articles 4 and 6 of this Law, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine bodies or persons whose rights were violated shall have the right to submit a court claim for withdrawal of such products . decision to withdraw products with illegitimate markings or goods that are copies of another business entity's products is made if the possibility of mixing with other business entities cannot be eliminated otherwise . a business entity cannot be liable for committing actions defined by this Law as unfair competition if the time bar for such liability has expired . time bar period is suspended for the duration of hearings of the case on unfair competition by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine bodies . decisions of the antimonopoly committee of ukraine bodies shall be published on the official web page within 10 days after their adoption .