ukrainian law aims to protect people and the environment from harmful impact of radioactive waste . the law applies to all activities with radiation waste at present and in the future . it is aimed at ensuring the protection of people and environment from the harmful impact . a number of measures are in place to ensure compliance with the law . radioactive wastes are tangible objects and substances, the activity of radionuclides or radioactive contamination of which exceeds the limits established by current regulations . the core principles of state policy are priority of protecting the life and health of personnel, the population and the environment . radioactivity must be managed in accordance with state radiation safety standards . ensuring the minimum level of the radioactive waste generation that can be achieved in practice . making decisions on the location of new waste repositories with the participation of citizens, their associations, as well as local executive authorities and local governments . Expenditures for financial support of activities are provided annually in the State Budget of Ukraine . the revenues of the Fund is formed at the expense of money received from the environmental tax levied for the generation of radioactive . waste . the Fund's money is allocated for the implementation of budget programmes . it is used to design, build, commission, operate, decommission or shut down radioactive waste facilities . rates and procedure for calculating environmental tax shall be established by the Tax Code of Ukraine . establishing the legal regime of territories surrounding enterprises for radioactive waste processing and the status of citizens living there . making decisions on the location, design, construction of storage facilities for disposal . the competence of the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine includes ensuring implementation of state policy . state regulation of safety in the field of radioactive waste management . activities include design, testing, manufacture or construction of facilities and vehicles . ensuring readiness for evacuation of the population and, if necessary, carry it out . public administration in the field of radioactive waste management is carried out by ministries and other central executive bodies designated by the president of Ukraine . the central government executive authority is entrusted with the following functions: development and implementation of a uniform technical policy in field of radiation waste management in Ukraine; . development and use of the money of the State Fund for Radioactive Waste Management . central government executive authority in the field of nuclear energy use is responsible for the organisation of radioactive waste management . licensees are legal entities and individuals who have a duly issued permit of the state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety to carry out the relevant type of activity . radioactive waste becomes the property of the state since signing the transfer document . licensees are responsible for radiation protection and safety during waste management . relationships between enterprises that generate radioactive and specialised enterprises are contractual . state keeps records of radioactive to avoid uncontrolled accumulation of waste . the organisation of state inventories is entrusted to the central government authority in the field of radioactive waste management . the regulations on the State Register of Radioactive Waste is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . long-lived radioactive waste is subject to disposal only in the solid state . the amount of radionuclides to be disposed of is regulated by norms, rules and standards on nuclear and radiation safety . spent nuclear fuel that cannot be recycled is stored after appropriate ageing . transport of radioactive waste by air, rail, water or road shall be agreed upon . in the event of a radiation accident caused by a traffic accident, the responsibility for its elimination rests with the consignor . licensees are responsible for timely notification of local executive authorities and local governments about violations . the special regime on the territory of radioactive waste repositories in the sanitary protection zone after their shut-down is regulated by law . the decision to construct a facility intended for radiation waste management is made by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . if the site is deemed unsuitable for the construction, the licensee must carry out works on reclamation . state administration body in the field of radioactive waste management submits to the Verkhovna Rada or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine the proposals for approval of the site and obtaining a permit . analysis of data obtained during the design and survey works on the site's safety . decision to select a site for the construction of the repository or the facility intended for radioactive . waste repository must contain two safety assessments: during repository operation; During repository shut-down. radioactive waste repositories and facilities intended for radiation waste management shall be commissioned in the presence of a duly issued licence for operation . sections X and Xii of the public policy on radiation waste include social guarantees for citizens who live or work in the area . citizens are guaranteed the right to compensation for damage caused by the radioactive disposal sites . section XII INTERNATIONAL CO-OPERATION IN THE FIELD OF RADIOACTIVE WASTE MANAGEMENT Article 30. International co-operation in the field of radioactive waste management. international co-operation in the field of radioactive waste management is carried out in accordance with international law . extensive sharing of experience and mutual assistance with other states, international organisations and scientific institutions .