all water resources (water objects) on the territory of Ukraine are the national property of the Ukrainian people, which is one of the natural bases of their economic development and social well-being . there is a need to develop and comply with special rules of water resources use, their rational use and environmentally friendly approach . water code together with organisational, legal, economic and educational actions will support the formation of water and environmental law and order . aquifer is a homogeneous layer of rocks where water is constantly present . bilge water is unclean water (primarily with petroleum products) taken from the bottom of a ship's bilges . subsoil waters are waters located below the ground level in the earth's formations . water reservoir is an artificial reservoir with a capacity of more than 1 million cubic meters, built to create a supply of water and regulate its flow . eutrophication is an increase in the content of biogenic substances in a reservoir, which causes quick algae reproduction . pollutant is a substance which is inflowed into a water body as a result of human economic activity . water clogging is bringing foreign objects and materials into water bodies that adversely affect water environment . firth is the estuary of a river valley or beam, flooded by seawater . water monitoring is a system for observing, collecting, processing, storing and analysing information about the state of water bodies . river basin management plan is a document containing the analysis of the state and a set of measures to achieve the goals defined for each zone of river basin within the established period . fish farming is artificial breeding and reproduction of fish and other aquatic living resources; pond is artificially created reservoir with capacity of no more than 1 million cubic meters . water's edge is the border of water on the shore of a water body (coastline) water quality is a characteristic of water composition and properties that determines its suitability for specific purposes . water relations in Ukraine are regulated by this ode, the Law of Ukraine "On environmental protection" and other legislative acts . water bodies of national and local significance include internal sea waters, territorial sea, as well as the waters of seaports . the competence of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine in the field of water relations regulation includes: regulating legislative, interstate programmes for the use and protection of water and reproduction of water resources . water bodies are the property of the Ukrainian people exclusively and are provided only for use . oblast, Kyiv and sevastopol city councils have competence in water relations regulation . they provide the implementation of state policy in the field of water use and protection and water resources reproduction . water bodies of local significance are assigned to objects of the nature reserve fund . water quality standards in water bodies of local significance stricter, if necessary, than on the territory of Ukraine in general . raion councils in the field of water relations regulation on their territory includes: 1) work coordination of village, settlement, town councils during the performance of interterritorial water management . village, settlement, city and district councils have jurisdiction in the field of water relations regulation on their territory . citizens and their associations, other public formations in the prescribed manner have the right to participate in the consideration of issues related to water, protection and water resources reproduction . water bodies, sources of pollution and use of water, plans and measures for the use and protection of water and reproduction of water resources in the prescribed manner . file a court complaint for damages caused to the state and citizens as a result of pollution, clogging and depletion of water . development and implementation of these programmes shall be carried out at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine, the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local budgets . public administration in the field of water use and protection and reproduction of water resources shall be based on basin principle . the hydrographic unit is the river basin area . the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of environmental protection, allocates water management areas within the river basins . river basin management plans shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine every six years . basin council is an advisory body within the river basin territory . formed by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of water management development . decisions of basin councils are taken into account when developing basin management plans . central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of environmental protection, management and control over the use and protection of water and reproduction of water resources . competence of central executive includes: 1) enforcing the formation of state policy; 2) ensuring the development of state, targeted, interstate programmes . the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of environmental protection shall exercise its powers independently and through its territorial authorities (if formed) the competence of the executive authority includes: 1) implementation of state policy (surface, subsoil, sea), rational use of water resources; 2) participation in the implementation of interstate programmes for the use and protection of water and reproduction of water ressources . central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of environmental protection exercises its powers independently and through its territorial authorities (if formed) competence includes: 1) implementation of state supervision (control) over compliance with the requirements of the legislation on protection and rational use of water and reproduction of water resources . ensuring the operation of the state environmental monitoring system in terms of conducting radiological and hydrochemical observations on water bodies . issuance of permits for special water use of water bodies in the exclusion zone and in the zone of unconditional (compulsory) resettlement . implementing the state policy in the field of water management development, exercises its powers independently and through its territorial authorities . competence of the central executive authority in field of geological study and rational use of subsoil, management and control over water use and protection and reproduction of water resources . oblast, Kyiv, Sevastopol city state administrations, executive authority of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on environmental protection in the field of management and control over water use and protection and reproduction of water resources . competence of the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea includes: ensuring the implementation of state policy . oblast, Kyiv, Sevastopol city state administrations, the executive authority of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on environmental protection . competence includes: 2) approval of water protection zone projects; 4) solution of other issues in the field of regulation of water relations defined by law . water monitoring is an integral part of the state system of environmental monitoring of Ukraine . ecological state of the surface water mass is classified as “excellent”, “good”, “satisfactory”, “bad” or “very bad” based on the ecological standard of water quality . ecological potential of artificial or significantly altered surface water masses is determined by biological indicators using hydromorphological, chemical and physicochemical indicators . list of pollutants for determining the chemical status of subsoil waters is approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of environmental protection . environmental impact assessment shall be carried out in the manner prescribed by the law . employees of ad hoc government authorities and public inspectors shall be granted protection of their honour, dignity, health and life . the task of state water accounting is to establish information on the quantity and quality of waters . state water cadastre is compiled in order to systematise the data of state water accounting and determine the available water resources for use . measures include ensuring water rational use and protection and reproduction of water resources . the legislation of Ukraine may establish other standards in the field of use and protection and reproduction of water resources . the standards assess capability for water use from water bodies to meet the needs of people and sectors of the economy . water bodies may be regulated to ensure ecological safety of water use, maximum permissible concentrations of pollutants . if necessary, more stringent standards for environmental safety of water use may be established for the waters of water bodies used for medical, resort, health, recreational and other purposes . ecological standard for water quality of surface and subsoil water mass contains scientifically substantiated values of pollutant concentrations and water quality indicators . water users are enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens of Ukraine . water users can be primary and secondary . secondary users are those who have their own water intake facilities and appropriate equipment for water intake. secondary water users discharge waste water into water bodies based on special water use permits . list of enterprises and organisations providing water transfer to low-water regions shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . rights of water users are protected by the law . water users must maintain sanitary protection zones of sources of drinking and domestic water supplies . they must also carry out accounting for water intake and use, control over the quality and quantity of return water and pollutants discharged into water bodies . water users are required to carry out special water use only with a permit . rights of water users are limited in the event of accidents or conditions that may or have led to water pollution . priority shall be given to the use of water for drinking and household needs . the right of general water use may be limited in accordance with the procedure specified in Article 47 of this Code . raion and city councils establish places where bathing, swimming on boats, water intake is prohibited . local councils are obliged to inform people about the rules they have established . on leased water bodies, general water use is allowed under the conditions established by the water user, in agreement with the authority that leased the water body . a special water use permit is issued by the territorial bodies of the central executive authority . the issuance (renewal, issuance of a duplicate, cancellation) of this permit is free of charge . to obtain a permit, legal entity or individual, individual entrepreneur shall apply in paper or in electronic form . Issuance or refusal to issue a special water use permit is carried out within 30 calendar days from the date of receiving the application and the documents required for the issuance of a permit . the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of geological study and rational use of subsoil; in the case of the use of water bodies classified as medical, – to the cea in charge of shaping and implementation of health care . exchange of documents between the executive authorities specified in this Article shall be a special water use permit can be revoked on the grounds specified in Article 55 of this code . the special water usage permit sets a water intake limit, water use limit and a pollutant discharge limit . in case of low water level, these limits can be reduced by the authority which has given the permit without correcting the permit . water bodies are provided for use on lease terms without limitation of the right to general water use, except the cases specified by the law . reservoirs (except multi-appointment reservoirs), ponds, lakes and natural closed reservoirs may be available for lease basis . provision of water bodies for lease terms shall be carried out in the presence of a passport of the water body . lessees of water bodies are obliged to allocate places for free provision of the right of citizens to general water use . the lease contract of the water body defines the obligations to implement measures to protect and improve ecological condition . water users who have been issued a special water use permit have the right to discharge return water into leased water bodies . the use of water bodies for the needs of air transport is free of charge . water bodies of special state significance, scientific or cultural value may be partially or completely banned . the right to special water use can be terminated by revoking the permit . wood floating on water bodies is prohibited . water users shall be reimbursed for damages caused by termination of the right or change of the terms of special water use . water users have the right to request information about the quality of drinking water from the owner of water (water supplier) water users are obliged to perform regular monitoring of the quality of water in water bodies and maintain the sanitary protection zone of the water intake . potable subsoil waters shall be used primarily to meet the needs of drinking and domestic water supply of people, as well as the food industry and livestock farming . water bodies with natural healing properties belong to the medicinal category, if they are included in a special list . use of water for health, recreational and sports purposes shall be carried out under the procedure of general and special water use . the quality of water used for irrigation of agricultural lands must comply with the established standards . Irrigation of agricultural lands and discharge of drainage waters into water bodies shall be carried out based on a special water use permit, issued to the owner of irrigated lands . measures shall be taken to prevent degradation and wind erosion of these lands, as well as the deterioration of water bodies . limits of drinking water consumption for industrial needs from communal and departmental drinking water supply pipelines shall be set . inland waterways classified as navigable are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . all vessels and other floating crafts must be equipped with tanks for the scavenging of bilge and other contaminated waters . the use of water bodies for boating (oars, motorboats) is allowed in compliance with the rules established by the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblast, Kyiv and sevastopol city council . water intake for fire-fighting needs is carried out from any water bodies without a special water use permit . discharge of waste water into water bodies is allowed only if the standards of maximum permissible concentrations are complied with . enterprises, institutions and organisations that pump mine, quarry and mine waters are obliged to enforce effective technologies . conditions for discharging these waters into water bodies and returning the produced water of oil and gas fields to underground water levels shall be established by oblast, Kyiv, Sevastopol city state administrations . landfills for disposal of pollutants, industrial waste and waste water are allowed in exceptional cases . the return of produced waters of oil and gas fields to underground water levels is carried out according to technological projects . operating modes of water bodies are determined by the rules approved by the central executive authority implementing the state policy . Depending on the catchment area of the basin, the rivers are divided into large, medium and small . rivers of Ukraine are divided by types according to the method of determining the surface and subsoil water masses . it is prohibited to: 1) change the relief of the river basin; 2) destroy the channels of drying rivers, streams and watercourses . river basin passport shall be drawn up in the manner determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . it is prohibited to build reservoirs and ponds in their basin with a total volume exceeding the volume of the river runoff in the estimated low-water year . the use of waters exposed to radioactive contamination is carried out according to the legislation of Ukraine and interstate treaties . water fund lands are provided for permanent use to military units of the state border guard service of Ukraine . land plots of protection coastlines, drainage lines and shoreline waterways may be leased to enterprises, institutions, organisations, associations of citizens, foreigners and stateless persons . use of these areas is subject to the requirements for protection of rivers and reservoirs from pollution, clogging and siltation . water fund lands may be used for hydraulic, linear and hydrometric structures . mining, clearing riverbeds, canals, laying cables, pipelines, other communications may be performed . water protection zones are a nature protection territory of regulated economic activity . sand and gravel may be extracted outside the lands of the water fund in the water protection zone . the external boundaries of water protection zones are determined by specially designed projects . executive committees of village, settlement, city councils are obliged to inform people, all interested organisations of decisions on boundaries . coastal protective belts are in state and communal ownership . a beach area shall be established in them . citizens shall have unimpeded and free access to the coast of the seas, bays, estuaries and islands in inland waters within the beach area . restrictions of economic activity in coastal protective belts along rivers, around water bodies and on islands Protective belts are a protected area with a regime of limited economic activity . boarding houses, objects of rehabilitation, sports, sanatoriums and other medical and health-improving establishments are prohibited . facilities located in the coastal protective belt may be operated, provided that its regime is not violated . building not suitable for operation, as well as those that do not meet the established management regimes are subject to removal from protective belts . Coastal protective belt along the seas, bays and estuaries is part of the sea sanitary protection zone . drainage diversion lanes with a special mode of use are installed for the needs of operation and protection against pollution, damage and destruction of main, inter-farm and other canals on irrigation and drainage systems . land plots are provided to the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of water management development . shorelines are established on navigable waterways outside urban settlements for carrying out works related to navigation . water bodies classified as nature reserves are protected and used in accordance with the requirements established by the law of Ukraine . actions of individuals and legal entities that cause damage to water bodies may be terminated according to a court decision . the design and construction of direct-flow water supplies systems of industrial enterprises is prohibited . main measures include equipment with fish protection devices of water intakes and other structures in accordance with approved projects . it is prohibited to discharge industrial, household, radioactive and other types of waste and garbage into water bodies . enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens are prohibited to pollute and litter the surfaces of watersheds, ice cover of reservoirs, watercourses, as well as seas, their bays and estuaries . chemical, radioactive and other harmful substances shall not be discharged into inland sea waters and territorial sea from vessels and floating vessels . in case of discovery of aquifers with subsoil water of drinking quality, persons carrying out drilling, mining and other works related to prospecting, exploration, operation of mineral deposits must notify . all unsuitable water wells, abandoned observation and exploration wells for all types of minerals, as well as vertical and other mining and exploration workings must be sealed . flood risk management plans are developed for selected areas within the river basin area with high risk of flooding . plans are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . flood risk plans are implemented to reduce the potential negative impact of floods on human life, the environment and cultural heritage . procedures for developing a flood risk management plan shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . local councils with the involvement of enterprises, institutions, organisations are obliged to take immediate measures to prevent natural disasters . the central executive authority must ensure the smooth operation of water bodies during floods and freshets, forecast the spread of their consequences . Disputes over the use and protection of water and reproduction of water resources shall be considered by the central executive authority implementing the state policy . water users shall be released from liability for the water law violation if it arose as a result of force majeure or hostilities . the legislation of Ukraine may establish liability for other offenses related to the use and protection of water and reproduction of water resources . article 111. Compensation for damages caused by violations of water legislation . enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens of Ukraine, as well as foreigners and stateless persons, foreign legal entities are obliged to compensate for damages caused by violations of water legislation . compensation shall not exempt the perpetrators from the fee for special water use . bringing those guilty of violating water legislation to justice shall not release them from the obligation to reimburse the damages .