the width of the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine is up to 200 nautical miles, counted from the same starting lines as the territorial sea of Ukraine . the sovereign rights and jurisdiction of Ukraine in relation to the seabed and its subsurface resources are implemented in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine on the continental shelf . in the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine, all states enjoy freedom of navigation and flight . fishery, research, exploration and other activities related to fishery are carried out by foreign legal entities and individuals . Ukraine exercises its rights over anadromous fish species where Ukrainian rivers produce reserves of such reserves . procedures and conditions for the use of fish and other living resources are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . Ukraine has an exclusive right to create, as well as to permit and to regulate construction, operation and use of artificial islands, installations and structures . abandoned or unused installations and structures must be removed as soon as possible . marine scientific researches in the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine are conducted only with the consent of specially authorised bodies of Ukrainian state . studies must be conducted only for peaceful purposes and do not pose a threat to the environment . foreign states, legal entities and individuals have to submit full information about the nature and goals of the project . if provided information is inaccurate, the specially authorised bodies of Ukraine may refuse to issue permission to conduct marine researches . marine scientific researches in the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine are conducted with violation of the requirements of Articles 13 and 14 of this law . decision on a temporary prohibition (suspension) may be lifted by such authorities, and the study will continue as soon as another state, its legal entity or individual, or an international organisation conducting the study eliminates the violation . if there is an indisputable and objective evidence that a vessel sailing in the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine has committed a violation of the legislation of Ukraine or of the norms of international law, an investigation may be initiated . if a foreign vessel is anchored in one of the Ukrainian ports, specially authorised bodies of Ukraine may start proceedings . in the event of collisions of ships, grounding or other maritime accident, or actions related to such accident may lead to serious negative consequences . vessels that violate the legislation of Ukraine on its exclusive (maritime) economic zone, must be taken measures determined by the circumstances aimed to stop the violation . if a foreign vessel is arrested or detained, the competent authorities shall immediately notify the flag state of the measures taken and the sanctions applied . a violation of the rules on safe operation of structures shall entail the imposition of a fine from two hundred seventy to eight hundred eighty non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens . illegal extraction of natural resources within the exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine - will entitle the state to confiscation of the means and tools which were used to commit the violation . illegal conduct of marine scientific researches in the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine - shall entail the imposition of a fine from ninety to four hundred fifty non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens . entails imposition of a fine from one thousand four hundred to six thousand six hundred non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens with confiscation of the maritime or aerial craft or structure that caused pollution, or without such confiscation . right to impose fines, provisioned by this Law, is authorised to: officials authorised by the central state executive authority . decision on non-repayable seizure of illegally extracted resources is approved by the body authorised to impose fine for such a violation . violations, provisioned by this Law, shall be conducted with presence of violator's representatives . fines imposed according to Articles 22-26 of this Law are made in currency in circulation at the territory of Ukraine . in case if foreign legal person did not pay fine in due time, relevant body that performs protection of exclusive (maritime) economic zone files a petition to the district (city) court . control over execution of rights and performance of obligations of other states, Ukrainian and foreign legal persons and individuals, international organisations in it is performed by the State border guard service of Ukraine .