this Law establishes the State guarantees of the enforcement of judgments and writs of execution, as defined by the Law of Ukraine ‘On Enforcement Proceedings’ (the ‘judgments’), and features of their enforcement . a recoverer under a judgment for recovery of funds from a government authority shall submit an application for enforcement of the judgment . together with the application, the recoverer shall submit documents and information required for the transfer of funds . the central executive authority that implements the State policy in the field of treasury management of budgetary funds shall duly notify thereof . a judgment for recovery of funds from a State-owned enterprise or legal entity has not been enforced within six months from the date of an order to initiate enforcement proceedings . funds under the judgment shall be transferred to the recoverer within ten days from the receipt of all the required documents and information . state-owned enterprise or legal entity declared debtors under the judgment shall open, within ten days from the transfer of funds, accounts with the central executive authority that implements the State policy in the field of treasury management of budgetary funds . provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to the banks in which the State holds one hundred per cent or a share in the authorised capital . the recoverer shall be paid compensation using the funds allocated under the budget programme for the enforcement of judgments . the funds paid under the judgment for recovery of funds in accordance with this Law shall be regarded as damages to the State budget . government authorities shall exercise, in the manner prescribed by law, the right of recourse against such person . following the internal investigation, government authorities and the central executive authority that implements the State policy in the field of treasury management of budgetary funds may file a lawsuit for payment of damages caused to the State budget . damages caused by joint actions or omissions by multiple officers or officials shall be held jointly and severally liable under the law . writs of execution under judgments for recovery of funds or final judgments issued before this Law shall be submitted to a body of the state bailiff service within six months . debts shall be paid in the following order of priority: pension and social payments, recovery of alimony payments, payment of losses or damage caused by crime or administrative offence, mutilation or other damage to health . any failure to submit, within the period stipulated by this paragraph becoming effective, shall not constitute grounds for denying the enforcement of budget allocations for payment of debt shall be determined by the law on the State budget of Ukraine for the relevant year . Chapter II was supplemented with a new clause in accordance with the Law No. 583-VII dated 19 September 2013