this law shall regulate relations arising in connection with industrial designs ownership in Ukraine . national intellectual property office is part of the state system of the legal protection of intellectual property . industrial design is result of intellectual and creative activity of a person in the field of design engineering . central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property, NIPO and a system of scientific, educational, informational, and other state enterprises, institutions, organisations of relevant specialisation . the main purpose of the attestation commission is to undertake a performance review of persons who have shown their intention to acquire the right to engage in the activities of a representative in intellectual property cases (patent attorney) the Appeals Commission is the NIPO collegiate body; product is any item of industrial production or handmade national intellectual property authority in the field of protection of rights to industrial designs . functions of NIPO shall include: receipt of applications, their examination, decision-making on them . approval of regulations on representatives in intellectual property cases (patent attorneys), on the Attestation commission . the head of NIPO is appointed and dismissed by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . NIPO shall conduct scientific research, engage experts and consultants to prepare recommendations on matters falling within the competence of the authority . the head of NIPO may be a citizen of Ukraine who has lived in Ukraine for the last five years . the head may not be deprived of the right to bring about activities related to the performance of state functions or hold relevant positions . head of supervisory board and his/her deputies shall be elected by members of the Supervisory Board from among them . powers include supervision of financial and economic activities of NIPO, budget execution, use of funds generated from the proceeds of collecting fees for actions related to the protection of intellectual property rights . a member of the supervisory board whose powers have been terminated before maturity shall be obliged to delegate a new representative . the form of work of the Supervisory Board is a meeting, based on the results of which the protocol is drawn up . main principles for considering objections and applications by the Appeals Chamber shall be the rule of law, legitimacy, equality of participants . the Attestation Commission shall consist of NIPO’s employees, the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. Appeals Commission is a NIPO collegiate body, which is formed to consider complaints . foreigners and stateless persons shall have the same rights and obligations as persons of Ukraine . if an international treaty, consent to be bound by, establishes rules other than those provided for by this Law . legal protection may not be granted to unstable objects made of liquid, gaseous, bulk or similar substances . acquisition of rights to registered industrial design shall be certified with a certificate showing the image of the industrial design filed in the Register . the term of validity of property rights to the registered industrial design is five years from the date of filing the application with the NIPO . total validity may not exceed 25 years from submission date of the application . term of legal protection for the unregistered design is three years from date of its bringing to the public notice on the territory of Ukraine . information becoming publicly available before the submission date and, if priority is claimed, before the priority date shall be taken into account . information disclosed to a third party under explicit or implicit conditions of confidentiality shall not be considered publicly available . registered industrial design shall be deemed to have been made public if it has been published as a result of state registration or for other reasons . recognition of the industrial design as protected shall not be affected by disclosure . provisions of this clause shall also apply if industrial design has been made public as a result of abuse . author's employer shall have the right to register if design was created due to official duties . the right to register the industrial design created by separate labour belongs to the applicant . applications submitted in electronic form shall be subject to electronic record keeping . the multiple application may contain no more than one hundred industrial designs . the application shall disclose the essence of the industrial design clearly and completely enough for it to be carried out by a specialist in the specified field . the priority of an industrial design used in an exhibition may be established by the date of the first public exhibition of an exhibit in which the claimed industrial design is embodied or applied . priority may be claimed in whole or in part for several previous applications . priority of industrial design may be established on the date of receipt by the NIPO of additional materials drawn up in accordance with clause 7 of Article 14 of this Law . final results of the application examination which is not considered withdrawn or has not been withdrawn are presented in a substantiated conclusion of the expert appraisal on request . the applicant shall have the right to request copies of materials presented against the application . the applicant shall have the right to submit additional materials to request copies of materials presented against the application . additional materials shall be submitted by the applicant within 2 months from the date of receipt by him of the notification or conclusion of the expert appraisal . the application shall be considered withdrawn if the applicant fails to file additional materials within the set time frame . if materials of the application meet the requirements of Article 12 of this Law, a notification determined the application submission date shall be sent to the applicant . if there are grounds to suggest that the declared industrial design does not meet requirements of clause 2, Article 5 . the applicant's response shall be provided within the period established by clause 6 of this Article for additional materials . examination shall be carried out concerning the first industrial design declared in the application . applicant shall have the right to withdraw the application at any time before the state fee for registration of the industrial design payment date. the procedure for Register maintenance and a list of information contained in the Register shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . if the document on payment of the state fee for registration of the industrial design and fee for publication of information on state registration of industrial design were not obtained by the NIPO within three months, the application is considered withdrawn . Errors in the information in the Register shall be corrected at the initiative of the owner of the industrial design or NIPO . changes may be made to the Register in accordance with the established list of possible changes . the applicant may appeal against the NIPO decision on the application in court proceeding . if the fee has not been paid within the period indicated in clause 1 of this Article, the objection shall be deemed not filed . the applicant may appeal against the approved decision of the Appeals Chamber in court proceeding within two months from the date of receiving the decision . the owner of the registered industrial design shall have the exclusive right to use the industrial design at the own discretion, provided that such use does not infringe the rights of others . in the absence of an agreement, each of the owners may use the design at their own discretion . the owner of the registered industrial design shall have the right to submit an application for granting any person permission to use . the annual fee for maintaining the industrial design rights validity shall be reduced in this case by 50 per cent starting from the year following the year of such application publication . if no person announced intentions to use industrial design, the owner may submit a written request to the NIPO for revocation of the statement . previous user right may be transferred or passed on to another person only where the solution identical to the claimed industrial design was used . use without commercial purposes; use for scientific or experimental purposes; for illustration or for educational purposes shall not be recognized as the violation of the rights to the industrial design . the owner of the registered industrial design may waive the rights to such industrial design at any time in whole or in part . the term of validity for the state registration of the industrial design shall be terminated in case of non-payment of the annual fee for maintaining the validity of industrial design rights within the established term . a person may submit a substantiated application for recognition of industrial design rights invalid in whole or in part to the Appeals Chamber based on non-compliance of the industrial design with the conditions for granting legal protection specified by this Law . the parties shall have equal rights to present evidence, examine it, and prove its persuasiveness . parties may appeal to the court against the Appeals Chamber decision . rights to industrial design, declared invalid, shall be considered invalid from the date of the industrial design state registration . any encroachment on the registered industrial design owner rights provided for in part 2 of Article 20 of this Law entails liability under the law. the amount and procedure of payment of the state duty for the registration of the industrial design shall be defined by the legislation . the amount of fees provided for by this Law, terms and the procedure for their payment shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine .