this Law defines legal and social foundations of road traffic to protect the life and health of citizens, create safe and comfortable conditions for participants in road traffic and protect the environment . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is responsible for preparing draft laws and regulations, as well as liability for their violation within the territory of Ukraine . establishing uniform requirements for the design, construction, reconstruction, repair, maintenance of motor roads, streets and railway crossings . determining the procedure for issuing certificates for activities related to manufacture, repair and operation of vehicles . the competence of the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblast, Kyiv and sevastopol city councils resides with the ministry of internal affairs of Ukraine . the competence of the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblast, Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils and raion state administrations in the field of road traffic includes: adopting regulatory acts on road traffic and its safety . the competencies of the city council and its executive authorities include: developing, approving and implementing city programmes for road traffic development . ensuring the development of a network of local motor roads, streets and railway crossings . establishing city and raion funds to finance programmes and selected measures aimed at the development of road traffic and its safety . controlling the organisation of training for different social and age groups of the population on traffic rules, planning measures related to ensuring safety and control over their observance . carrying out work to promote road safety; organising the construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of motor roads, streets, railway crossings . parking inspectors to consider cases of administrative offences and temporarily detain vehicles, in cases determined by the law . identifying ways to stimulate the use of electric vehicles and other environmentally friendly modes of transport . the bodies determined in the first part of this Article shall be entitled to consider and resolve other issues that are within their competence . owners of motor roads, streets and railway crossings or their authorised bodies in the field of road traffic . ensuring safe, economical and comfortable traffic conditions . providing information about the state of traffic accident rate and road surface, hydrometeorological and other conditions, etc. vehicle owners' competence includes implementing measures for the development, operation and maintenance of vehicles in good technical condition . introducing positions of road safety specialists responsible for storage, maintenance and operation of vehicles . officials responsible for the operation and technical condition of vehicles are obliged to: ensure recruitment, advanced training and raising the professional level of drivers . do not allow persons to drive vehicles if they do not have the right to drive a vehicle of the appropriate category, have not passed a medical examination within the established time limit . participants in road traffic are persons who use motor roads, streets, railway crossings . they are drivers and passengers of vehicles, pedestrians, persons who move in wheelchairs, cyclists, drovers of animals . participants must know and strictly comply with the requirements of this Law, traffic rules . emergency (ambulance) care teams moving with a flashing light and a special sound signal on . police officers, employees of the military inspectorate of road safety may deviate from certain requirements of traffic rules . the list of medical contraindications (diseases and defects) in the presence of which a person cannot drive the corresponding vehicles is determined by the designated central executive authority for health care . training, retraining and advanced training of vehicle drivers are carried out in accredited institutions . list of requirements for institutions, qualification requirements for specialists . main form of government control in the area of road safety is accreditation . examinations for acquiring the right to drive vehicles of corresponding category or type are taken in the territorial bodies of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine . national and international driving licences are valid within the territory of Ukraine . it is prohibited to drive vehicles for persons who have been subject to an administrative penalty or criminal punishment . the driver is obliged: . to carry passengers or cargoes on roads, streets and in other places where traffic is not prohibited . a driver is obliged to stop the vehicle in compliance with the requirements of traffic rules . in cases stipulated by the legislation – a policy of compulsory civil liability insurance for owners of land-based vehicles (“Green card” insurance certificate) or present an electronic driver's licence and an electronic vehicle registration certificate . a driver is obliged to give a pedestrian an opportunity to safely cross the road, street . transfer a vehicle to police officers and health professionals for the delivery to the nearest medical facility of persons in need of emergency medical care . the driver has the right to compensation for losses in accordance with the applicable legislation . a pedestrian has the right to a preferential crossing of the roadway at marked pedestrian crossings . a passenger, that is, a person who uses a vehicle but is not involved in driving it is obliged to: get into the vehicle only from a special platform . in the absence of the crossing or intersection within a field of vision, cross the road, street, railway crossing on a site where it is clearly visible in both directions. a passenger has the right to: safe transportation of himself/herself and luggage; compensation for losses caused . cyclists and drovers of animals are obliged to use technically sound and properly equipped bicycles; refrain from carrying loads that interfere with bicycle control . persons moving in wheelchairs should comply with traffic rules for pedestrians . Article 20. Education of citizens in traffic rules is carried out in accordance with standard training programmes . development of road safety skills in children begins in preschool educational institutions from the age of three . the procedure for using motor roads is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . organisations and citizens that develop standard or individual projects for the construction, reconstruction and repair of motor roads, streets and railway crossings are obliged to stipulate the entire range of measures related to ensuring road safety, environmental requirements . it is prohibited to reduce capital costs by reducing measures that affect road safety . owners of roads, streets and railway crossings, managers of road maintenance organisations are bear liability, including criminal liability . executive authorities of Kyiv, Sevastopol and Simferopol city councils shall ensure the setup, equipment and operation of parking areas within the cities . temporary restriction or prohibition of movement is possible only in cases related to natural disasters, as well as to the need to perform emergency works . escort of vehicles carrying leaders of foreign states, parliaments and governments, heads of international intergovernmental organisations, foreign delegations staying in Ukraine on an official visit, shall take place with account for the principle of reciprocity . the movement of specialised ambulance vehicles of emergency (ambulance) care teams, fire brigades, the National Police, rescue and other emergency services performing urgent duties is allowed  road traffic is organised by specialised services, which are created by relevant authorities . cyclists, persons moving in wheelchairs, horse-drawn vehicles and movement of animals by drovers shall be organised using duplicate paths, roadsides . vehicles are allowed to participate in road traffic if their construction and technical condition meet the requirements of current rules and standards in Ukraine . vehicles with weight or dimensions that exceed the standard can only be allowed subject to permission for such vehicles to participate in road traffic . the place of crossing motor roads, streets and railway crossings by caterpillar vehicles for agricultural work should be established by the owner . before starting serial production of vehicles or their components, special tests are carried out and a certificate of the established form issued . records of enterprises, institutions, organisations and other business entities are kept by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of supervision (oversight) in the agro-industrial complex . vehicles, their component parts and components that are imported into the territory of Ukraine are subject to verification of compliance with mandatory requirements or must have a certificate issued by the Administrative vehicle certification body . vehicles shall be re-equipped in the manner determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . technical condition of vehicles must comply with rules and standards approved in the prescribed manner . all types of vehicles intended for operation on the national motor roads are subject to state registration and record . territorial bodies of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine are obliged to refuse to perform such registration and notify the state executive service body specified in the Unified Register of Debtors or a private contractor . for the automated record of vehicles that are used on the public road network and are subject to state or departmental registration, the unified state register of vehicles is maintained . vehicles for personal use temporarily imported to the customs territory of Ukraine by citizens for more than 30 days are subject to state registration . owners of vehicles and persons using them legally are obliged to register (re-register) their vehicles within ten days after their acquisition, customs processing, receipt of vehicles . information on registered vehicles and their owners, proper users is open and publicly available . information from the Unified State Register of Vehicles is provided in the manner established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . vehicles that participate in road traffic are subject to mandatory technical control . mandatory technical control of a vehicle provides for checking the technical condition of the vehicle . the frequency of technical control is: for cars used for transportation of passengers or cargoes for profit – every two years . for lorries with a carrying capacity of more than 3.5 tons, trailers for them and taxis regardless of the service life – annually . for each vehicle that has passed the mandatory technical control, a protocol on its technical condition inspection shall be issued to the driver of the vehicle . the protocol shall indicate the period of the next mandatory technical check of vehicle based on the frequency of such control established by part eight of this Article . vehicles belonging to military units, the ministry of internal affairs of Ukraine, the national police, the state special transport service of Ukraine . road traffic rationing is carried out to establish mandatory norms, rules, requirements . standards of road traffic must meet the requirements of safety, economy and comfort . preference for traffic at intersections, where circular movement is organised, is given to vehicles already moving in a circle. section VII PLANNING AND FINANCING MEASURES FOR ROAD SAFETY Article 42. General provisions of the unified record system of road traffic indicators and its safety . ministries, other central executive authorities and associations have no right to introduce reporting that is not provided for by this Law . medical examination is carried out to determine the ability of candidate drivers and drivers to drive vehicles safely . the frequency of examinations, the procedure for their conduct and driver referral to extraordinary examinations are determined by a joint act of the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of health care . Victims of traffic accidents shall be provided with emergency medical care in accordance with the law of Ukraine "On emergency medical ais" and plans developed and approved annually by oblast state administrations . appropriate road signs shall be installed with information on the nearest health care institution which can provide emergency care or other medical care . health care institutions and emergency (first aid) stations shall also be available on highways and equipped with a system of call-signalling communication . police officers, officials of the military traffic safety inspectorate supervising traffic are obliged to monitor the equipment of patrol cars assigned to them . enterprises that produce fuel should comply with mandatory requirements for fuel and lubricants . the tasks of road traffic control are aimed at ensuring that ministries, other central executive authorities and associations, as well as citizens, comply with requirements of Ukrainian legislation on traffic . the Ministry of internal affairs of Ukraine has powers in the field of road safety . they include shaping and implementing the state policy on ensuring road safety, preparing draft laws and other regulatory acts . the ministry is also responsible for approving vehicle constructions in terms of compliance with road safety requirements . parking inspectors are prohibited from accepting cash to pay for the cost of such services and/or to pay fines imposed at the scene of the offence . provisions of part one of this Article do not apply in cases defined by parts 6 and 7 of Article 30 of the law of Ukraine . city, township, village councils may decide to introduce within the territory of settlement an automated system for monitoring the payment of the cost . national police shall also control the legality of the operation of vehicles on the public street and road network . the National Police shall temporarily detain and deliver a vehicle to special sites or parking lots for temporary storage . liability for offences in the field of road safety recorded automatically is borne by an individual or head of the legal entity for which the vehicle is registered . the liable person specified in part one of this Article, if brought to responsibility has a right of a counter demand to a person who was driving the vehicle at the time of the offence . if an international treaty of Ukraine establishes rules other than those contained in the legislation of Ukraine on traffic, the rules of that treaty shall apply .