the purpose of the Law is to create a legal framework for obtaining and using scientific and technical information . this Law applies to enterprises, institutions, organisations regardless of their form of ownership . it does not apply to information containing state secrets and other legally protected secrets . information market is a system of economic, organisational, and legal relations . it is related to the sale and purchase of information resources, technologies, products and services . scientific and technical information is public property, a necessary condition for productive intellectual activity . the terms regarding its acquisition, storage, processing, use and dissemination are governed by the current legislation . rights to scientific and technical information are protected in accordance with the law . rights to information belonging to individuals and legal entities may be transferred to the state in case of its transfer to the relevant state data banks, funds, or archives on a contractual basis . the main purpose of the national system of scientific and technical information is to meet the needs of citizens, legal entities and the state . it is a legal and institutional framework that forms the public information policy . main objectives of the system are: generating reference and information funds, including databases and data banks . information resources of the national system of scientific and technical information constitute a set of reference and information funds . individuals and legal entities of Ukraine, regardless of ownership, participate in the replenishment of information resources . the procedure for registration and accounting is determined by the specially empowered central body that carries out management in the field . rights to results of scientific research, developmental, design and engineering belong to legal entities and individuals . foreign scientific and technical literature and documentation can be obtained currency-free . prices for information products and services are set by contracts, except for cases provided by this Law . scientific and technical information that does not require special topical search or copying is provided free of charge in scientific and science and research libraries financed from the budget . reviews, analytical and factual information, other types of information products prepared on the basis of analysis, evaluation, and generalization are sold on a commercial basis . the state promotes openness and the general availability of scientific and technical information . restraints on access, dissemination, and use of information that is a state or other secret protected by law are determined by the laws of Ukraine . introducing economic mechanisms for the creation and support of enterprises based on private or collective property, which carry out information activities. the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine designates the public administration body that ensures the arrangement of activities in the field of scientific and technical information . a violation of the Ukrainian legislation entails liability in accordance with the current legislation . foreign legal entities and individuals, as well as stateless persons, may invest in the development of technical information in Ukraine . president of Ukraine l. kravchuk city of kyiv 25 june 1993 no. 3322-xii .