every person shall have an inalienable and indefeasible right to healthcare . society and the state are responsible for the level of health and preservation of the Ukrainian people's gene pool . fundamentals of the legislation of Ukraine on healthcare prescribe the legal, organisational, economic and social principles of healthcare in Ukraine . medical subsidy means non-cash assistance provided at the expense of state or local budgets . medical emergency of a person means sudden deterioration of physical or mental health . individual responsible for procurements in the field of healthcare shall have the right to supply (transfer) free of charge medications, medical devices with the auxiliary appliance and services . healthcare is a system of measures aimed at preserving and restoring physiological and psychological functions, optimal labour capacity and social activity of a person . medical technology assessment shall mean an examination of medical technologies in terms of clinical efficiency, economic feasibility, organisational problems and safety issues . the state, relevant local governments, legal entities and individuals, including the patient, may be the customers of medical care service . health condition shall mean a common indicator of diseases (acute and chronic), disorders, injuries or trauma . telehealth shall mean actions, technologies and measures used in the delivery of medical care by virtue of remote communication . healthcare is a duty of society and state, one of the main factors of survival and development . citizen of Ukraine has the right to healthcare, including standard of living, medical care, environment safe for life and health . right to an independent medical examination of the relevant type in case of disagreement of a citizen with the conclusion of the state medical examination . citizens of Ukraine who are abroad shall be guaranteed the right to healthcare . the state recognises the right of every citizen of Ukraine to healthcare and ensures its protection . citizens may receive free medical care in state and municipal healthcare facilities . citizens of Ukraine shall be obliged to take control of their health and the health of children . citizens may be recognised temporarily or permanently unfit for health reasons for professional or other activities associated with increased danger to others . decision on diminution of rights of other citizens related to their health status may be appealed in court . healthcare is a priority area of state activity. the state shapes healthcare policy in Ukraine and ensures its implementation. healthcare policy shall be provided with budget allocations in the amount corresponding to its scientifically substantiated needs. the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall organise the development and implementation of state targeted programmes . the system of standards in the field of healthcare comprises state social norms and industry standards . medical care standard is a set of norms, rules and regulations, as well as parameters (indicators) of the quality of medical care of the relevant type . compliance with the standards of medical care (medical standards), protocols for the delivery of rehabilitation care, lists of logistical equipment is mandatory . the board of state and municipal healthcare facilities shall be formed taking into account the development plans of hospital districts . a hospital district means a set of healthcare facilities and individual entrepreneurs registered in the manner prescribed by law . the procedure for establishing hospital districts and the list of main healthcare facilities shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . only an individual who meets the uniform qualification requirements established by the central executive authority . state and municipal healthcare facilities shall not be subject to privatisation . healthcare facilities of municipal ownership may be formed and function as municipal non-profit enterprises or municipal institutions . medical care shall be provided free of charge at the expense of budget funds in healthcare facilities . healthcare facilities may use funds received from legal entities and individuals to improve the quality of medical service unless otherwise provided for by law . the state shall organise logistical support of healthcare to the extent necessary to provide the population with a guaranteed level of medical and rehabilitation care . state shall ensure compliance with the legal requirements on the restriction of advertising of medications . the state may restrain the export of goods necessary for healthcare and raw materials for the manufacture thereof . to ensure the proper quality of healthcare devices, their use is allowed only after mandatory testing . state and municipal healthcare facilities delivering secondary and tertiary medical care . supervisory boards shall be formed with the members of the public to be compulsorily involved . healthcare facilities may also establish boards of trustees, which (with their consent) may include philanthropists, public representatives, local governments, the media . state shall provide the living standards of the population, including food, clothing, housing, medical care, social services . state shall ensure natural environment protection as an important prerequisite for human life and health . sanitary and epidemiological well-being of territories and settlements shall be ensured by system of state incentives and regulators . ensuring favourable health conditions for work, study, life and leisure . state standards, specifications and industrial designs must be agreed with health authorities . medical intervention that may cause a disorder of the human genetic apparatus shall be prohibited . healthcare of the population shall be ensured by preventive medical examinations . the use of hypnosis, suggestion, other methods of psychological and psychotherapeutic influence is allowed only in places and in the manner prescribed by the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public health care . medical care may be delivered by research and teaching personnel of higher (postgraduate) education organisations . there are several types of medical care, namely emergency, primary, secondary (specialised), tertiary (highly specialised), and palliative . the attending physician delivering rehabilitation care in the field of healthcare during post-acute and long-term rehabilitation periods . attending physician's responsibilities shall include timely and qualified check-up and treatment of the patient . standards for the workload of attending physicians shall be approved by central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare . emergency medical care means medical assistance aimed at saving and sustaining the life of a person in the medical emergency . primary medical care may be provided on an outpatient basis or at the patient's place of residence (stay) in the manner determined by the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare . secondary (specialised) medical care shall mean medical assistance provided by specialised physicians (except general practitioners – family physicians) on a scheduled basis or in emergency situations . secondary (specialised) medical care shall be delivered free of charge at the healthcare facilities delivering such services, with which the heads of budget funds have concluded contracts for medical service to the population . tertiary (highly specialised) care shall mean medical assistance delivered on the scheduled outpatient and inpatient conditions or in emergency situations . the procedure for referring patients based on their medical symptoms, as well as the procedure to deliver such care, shall be determined by the central executive authority shaping state policies . tertiary (highly specialised) medical care may be delivered by research and teaching personnel of higher (postgraduate) education institutions . patients in terminal stages of fatal diseases shall be delivered palliative care . the procedure for referring patients to healthcare facilities delivering such care shall be determined by the central executive authority . medical care using telehealth shall be delivered by healthcare facilities and entrepreneurs . citizens of Ukraine may be sent for treatment abroad if it is necessary to deliver one or another type of medical care to a patient . medical workers shall be obliged to provide the necessary medical care immediately in the event of an emergency . citizens who participated in rescuing people and assisted in delivering medical care shall be guaranteed to receive free treatment and compensation for moral and property damage . every patient who has reached the age of majority shall have the right to receive reliable and complete information about the state of his or her health . in the event of a patient's death, his family members or other individuals authorised by him or her shall have a right to appeal these conclusions in court . medical workers and other persons may not disclose this information, except as provided by law cases . medical intervention may be allowed only if it cannot harm the patient's health . consent of a patient informed in accordance with Article 39 of these Fundamentals is required . consent to medical intervention is not required only if there are signs of a direct threat to the patient's life . a patient who has acquired full civil capacity and can manage them has the right to refuse treatment . medical practice professionals use diagnostic, prophylactic or treatment methods and medications approved for use by the central executive authority . new diagnostic, prophylactic or treatment methods and medications may be used for a person's treatment only after obtaining his or her written consent . in the case of a minor, these methods and means may also be used with the written consent of his parents or other legal representatives . the procedure for the application of these methods shall be established by the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare . medical and biological experiments on human beings shall be permitted for socially useful purposes . it is forbidden to forcibly or fraudulently take blood from an individual in order to use him or her as a donor . artificial insemination and embryo transfer shall be carried out in the manner prescribed by law . artificial insemination and embryo transfer shall be carried out in accordance with the conditions and procedure established by the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare . operation of induced termination of pregnancy can be performed at the request of a woman in healthcare facilities during pregnancy for a period not exceeding 12 weeks . a person who has undergone a change of gender designation shall be issued a medical certificate . brain death is defined by the complete and irreversible cessation of all its functions . the council of physicians at the healthcare facility, where the patient has been admitted, shall diagnose the human brain death . medical workers shall be prohibited from carrying out euthanasia . citizens suffering from rare (orphan) diseases shall be provided with medications and appropriate food for special dietary consumption . healthcare facilities authorised to do so under the law may release only those medications and immunobiological medicines that have been approved for use . production of new medications is allowed with the consent of the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare . quality control of medications manufactured by Ukrainian enterprises . citizens shall be provided with prostheses, orthopaedic, corrective devices, glasses, hearing aids, physical therapy equipment and special means of transportation if necessary . the state will provide a wide network of kindergartens, boarding schools, health resorts, recreation camps and other children's facilities . the conditions of training and workload and the requirements for the class regime shall be determined in consultation with the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare . medical care shall be provided by healthcare facilities and individual entrepreneurs conducting economic activities in medical practice . if it is impossible to hospitalise or there are no indications for inpatient treatment of an ill child, the mother or other family member caring for the child may be released from work . industrial training of adolescents shall be allowed for those professions that correspond to their age, physical and mental development and health status . medical examination of working adolescents is mandatory to decide whether to hire them . state control over the provision of medical care in sanatorium-resort facilities shall be exercised by the central executive authority implementing state policies in the field of healthcare . owners and directors of health resorts, recreation houses, tourist bases, other enterprises, institutions and organisations shall create healthy and safe conditions . medical evaluation to determine temporary labour capacity loss of citizens shall be conducted by a physician or a council of physicians . medical and social evaluation of persistent vital activity limitations . individual rehabilitation plan, individual rehabilitation programme for a person with disability (child with disability) are mandatory for implementation . military medical examination shall determine the suitability for military service of conscripts, servicemen, persons subject to conscription and reservists . post-mortem examinations must be performed when violent death is suspected . in the absence of suspicion of violent death, it may not be performed . alternative medical examination shall be carried out if the citizen disagrees with the conclusions of the state medical examination . methods of health improvement, preventive measures, diagnosis and treatment based on the experience of many generations of people, established in folk traditions not subject to state registration . qualifications requirements for individual entrepreneurs engaged in folk medicine (healing) shall be determined by the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare . the special permit for practising folk medicine (healing) may be revoked . it is forbidden to practise healing with the use of mass media . the text of the Oath of the doctor of Ukraine is approved by the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine . professional development, retraining at least once in five years in relevant facilities and institutions . compulsory insurance at the expense of the owner of the healthcare facility in case of harm to their life and health . benefits for the free use of housing with lighting and heating within the norms established by law . a physician of district hospitals, chief physicians and physicians of outpatient clinics located in rural areas shall be entitled to additional paid annual leave of three calendar days for more than three years . medical workers of emergency (ambulance) brigades of emergency medical care and disaster medicine centres . owners of specially designated parking lots shall provide and allocate free parking spaces for vehicles driven by medical workers . medical, pharmaceutical and rehabilitation specialists shall be obliged to foster the protection and promotion of human health, prevention and treatment of disease . they shall also provide free emergency medical care to citizens in case of an accident and other extreme situations . the list of positions of professionals with higher non-medical education in healthcare facilities and the qualification characteristics of such positions shall be determined by the central executive authority . international cooperation in the field of healthcare Ukraine is a participant in international cooperation . the state guarantees to these organisations the proper conditions of activity on the territory of Ukraine . healthcare facilities, rehabilitation facilities, entitled authorities of the professional self-government, citizens and their associations shall have the right to independently conclude agreements (contracts) with foreign legal entities and individuals . the central executive authority shaping and implementing state policies in the field of healthcare shall have the right to enter into Controlled Access Agreements with the Applicant . such agreements shall specify conditions for the supply of original (innovative) medication to the territory of Ukraine . in case of state registration in Ukraine of a generic medication (similar biological medication), the controlled access agreement shall be terminated before expiry on December 31 . Parties to the Controlled Access Agreement may define certain provisions of the agreement as the restricted information, except for the information specified in part 7 of this Article . officials participating in the negotiations on concluding such agreements shall be responsible for the illegal disclosure of restricted information contained therein .