this Law shall regulate the relations on creating, gathering, obtaining, storing, using, disseminating, protecting and securing information . definitions: document shall mean a physical medium containing the information; information shall mean any details and/or data, which may be saved on physical media . exercise of the right to information must not violate public, political, economic, social, spiritual, environmental and other rights, freedoms, rights and interests of legal entities . the state guarantees equal rights and opportunities for accessing information to all subjects of information relations, says dmitriy zhukhovsky . he adds that the language of information shall be determined by the Law of Ukraine “On Ensuring the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as the Official Language” the main types of information activity shall include creating, gathering, obtaining, storing, using, disseminating, protecting and securing the information . the information shall be divided into the following types: information about an individual; reference and encyclopaedic information; information about the state of the environment . personal data shall include, inter alia, the data about ethnicity, education, marital status, religious beliefs, health condition . legal regime of the reference and encyclopaedic information shall be determined by the legislation and international treaties of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. information on the state of the environment, except for the location of military facilities, may not be classified as restricted information. scientific and technical information shall mean details and/or data on the domestic and foreign scientific, technical and production achievements . tax information means a set of details and data, which have been created or obtained by subjects of information relations in the process of current activity . legal information means any details about the law, its system, sources, implementation, legal relations, law enforcement, offences and counteraction thereto, etc. sources of legal information shall be the Constitution of Ukraine, other legislative and subordinate regulatory acts, international treaties and agreements . confidential information may be disseminated at the choice (with the consent) of a relevant person . procedure for classifying information as secret or proprietary, as well as the procedure for accessing it, shall be regulated by laws . restricted information may not include the following details: 1) on the state of the environment, quality of food products and household items . media means means intended for public dissemination of printed or audiovisual information . information products and information services are an object of civil law relations regulated by the civil legislation of Ukraine . journalists shall have the right to freely visit the premises of public authorities, open events held, and be personally received by their officers and officials . journalist shall have the right not to disclose the source of information or information enabling to determine the sources of information . a public authority may accredit journalists and media employees in order to create favourable conditions for carrying out their professional activity . lack of accreditation may not be the ground for denying access for a journalist and media employee to open events held by the public authority . a public authority may establish a simplified accreditation procedure . accreditation may not be denied if all the documents provided by this part are submitted . a journalist, media employee must comply with the internal code of conduct . information may not be used for calling to overthrow the constitutional order . information may be disseminated if it is socially necessary, i.e., is a subject of public interest . value judgments shall be expressions containing actual data, critics, evaluation of actions . if an infringement of the right to freedom of information causes pecuniary or non-pecuneiary damage to a person, he/she shall get compensation based on the court judgment . public authorities as plaintiffs in the cases on defending the honour, dignity and goodwill shall have the right in court only refutation of false information . part 1 of Article 200 of the Civil Code of Ukraine shall be amended to read as follows: "1. Information shall mean any details and/or data, which may be saved on physical media or displayed electronically" part 2 of Article 37 of the Law of Ukraine “On Information Agencies” shall be deleted . 7) Article 3 of the Law of Ukraine “On the Procedure for Covering Activities of Government Authorities and local government by mass media in Ukraine” shall be deleted . 8) Articles 45 and 69 of the law of Ukraine "On television and radio broadcasting" shall be removed .