the Code of Commercial Procedure of Ukraine determines the jurisdiction and powers of commercial courts, establishes the procedure for administering proceedings in commercial courts . the task of commercial proceedings is a fair, impartial and timely resolution by the court of disputes related to economic activities . the right to appeal to the commercial court in the manner prescribed by this Code shall be guaranteed . the agreement of the parties on the transfer of a dispute to arbitration (international commercial arbitration) shall be allowed . the only way to protect the rights of persons who are (were) members of a bank is compensation in cash . the unified judicial information and telecommunication system shall operate in commercial courts . claims and other statements, complaints and other procedural documents are subject to mandatory registration in the system . lawyers, notaries, private bailiffs, trustees in bankruptcy, judicial experts must register e-mail addresses . other persons shall register their official e.mail addresses on a voluntary basis . registration does not deprive the right to receive a copy of a judgment in paper form upon a separate request . case files shall be converted into paper form in the manner established by the Regulations on the unified judicial information and telecommunication system . documents and evidence in paper form shall be kept in an appendix to a case in the court of first instance . cases shall be considered in commercial courts orally and openly, except for cases provided for by this Code . court may remove from the courtroom persons who obstruct the conduct of a court hearing . court may restrict access to the court hearing of persons who are not trial participants . a case shall be considered in the closed court hearing in full or in part . a case shall be heard in accordance with the written proceedings if this Code does not provide for notification of the case parties . a judgment (full or brief) adopted in the open court hearing shall be publicly announced . the trial participants, other persons present in the courtroom and media representatives may take photographs, record video . if the court made a decision on their rights, interests and (or) obligations, they have the right to review the case files, abbreviate them, make copies of the documents attached to a case . commercial proceedings in the courts shall be administered in the state language . courts shall ensure equality of rights of trial participants regardless of the language used . trial participants who are not proficient or insufficiently proficient in the state language have the right to make statements, provide explanations, appear in court and put motions in their native language . the court shall apply the 1950 Convention for the protection of human rights and the protocols thereto ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . commercial proceedings shall be administered according to the rules provided for in this Code . writ proceedings are intended for consideration of cases upon applications for recovering insignificant amount of money, which are undisputed or the applicant is not aware of their existence . for the purposes of this Code, insignificant cases are cases whose cost of claim does not exceed one hundred times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons . commercial proceedings shall be conducted on the basis of adversarial character of the parties . each party bears the risk of implications associated with the commission or non-commission of procedural actions . the trial participant disposes of their rights in relation to the subject of the dispute at their own discretion . commercial courts shall consider cases in disputes arising in connection with the conduct of economic activities and other cases specified by law . the court shall determine, within the limits established by this Code, the procedure for administering proceedings in accordance with the pro rata principle . disputes arising from the conclusion, amending, termination and execution of transactions in economic activities, except for transactions, in which an individual is a not an entrepreneur . cases in disputes concerning shares, stakes, stock, other corporate rights in a legal entity . bankruptcy cases and cases in disputes with property claims against the debtor . cases on appeals against acts (judgments) of economic entities and their bodies, officials and employees in the field of organisation and conducting economic activities . disputes concerning the protection of business reputation, except for disputes, to which an individual who is not an entrepreneur is a party . disputes arising from the conclusion, amendment, termination and execution of public-private partnership agreements, including concession agreements, except for disputes, which are considered as part of other proceedings . a dispute falling within the jurisdiction of the commercial court may be referred to the arbitration court or to the international commercial arbitration . a dispute falling within the jurisdiction of a commercial court may be referred by agreement of the parties to a court of another state . local commercial courts shall consider cases in disputes specified in Part 2 of Article 20 of this Code as courts of first instance . the Appeals Chamber of the High Intellectual Property Court shall review on appeal the judgments adopted by the high intellectual property court . a claim shall be filed to the commercial court at the location or place of residence of the defendant . the right to choose among the commercial courts, within the jurisdiction of which a case falls under this Article, belongs to a plaintiff . a court of appeal shall review through the appeal procedure the judgments adopted by the courts of appeal . claims against a defendant, whose place of registration or residence is unknown, shall be filed at the location of the defendant's property or at the last known registered place of residence or stay . claims for compensation for damage caused by a collision of vessels, as well as for recovery of compensation for rescue at sea, may also be filed . Disputes arising regarding immovable property shall be considered by the commercial court at the place of their main part . disputes involving the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine, a ministry or other central executive authority, the national bank of Ukraine and the accounting chamber shall be considered by a local commercial court . Disputes concerning corporate relations, including disputes between the participants (founders, shareholders, members) of a legal entity . cases provided for in Paragraphs 8 and 9, Part 1 of Article 20 of this Code shall be filed to the commercial court at the venue of the original claim . dispute shall be considered by the commercial court at the location of a defendant, who is a party to the main obligation . in case of liquidation or termination of the court, the cases that were in its proceedings shall be immediately transferred to the court determined by the relevant law . a case transferred from one court to another in accordance with the procedure established by this Article shall be received for proceedings by the court, to which it is sent . rules established by Parts 1, 3 and 8 of this Article also apply to the high intellectual property court . a judge and, in the case of a panel hearing, judge-rapporteur to consider a particular case shall be appointed . the judge presiding on the conferences of a panel shall be a judge-rapporteur . such a case shall be considered in a court of first instance by a judicial panel . unresolved court cases may be transferred for automated re-distribution of cases . a judge appointed to replace a terminated judge shall consider in the panel of judges all unresolved cases . the unified judicial information and telecommunication system shall not be used . consideration of a case shall begin at the beginning, except as provided for by this Code . the results of the automated distribution (re-distribution) of a case shall be recorded in a protocol . specifics of the division of court cases shall be established by the Regulation on the unified judiciary information and telecommunication system . cases may be considered in the courts of first instance by a judge alone . in the cases specified by this Code, the judgments by the court of cassation shall be reviewed by the judicial chamber of the Commercial Court of Cassation (chamber) or the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court (grand chamber) a session of the joint chamber or the grand chamber shall be deemed quorate if at least two-thirds of its members are present . judges shall not have the right to refrain from voting and signing a judgment or a ruling . a judge may not consider a case and shall be subject to recusal (self-recusal) in the following cases: 1) they are a family member or close relative (husband, wife, father, mother, stepfather, stepmother, son, daughter, stepson, stepdaughter) a judge who participated in the case consideration by the court of first instance shall not participate in the consideration of the same case in the courts of appeal and cassation . a court secretary, expert, specialist, interpreter of the court hearing may be recused on grounds specified in Article 35 of this Code . a judge, secretary of a court hearing, expert, specialist, interpreter must recuse themselves . self-recusal shall be declared no later than on the beginning of the first court hearing . recusal of an applicant shall be resolved both before and after the commencement of proceedings . the issue of recusal of a judge shall be resolved by the court that considers a case . if the court concludes that it is unjustified, the issue shall be decided by a non-member judge . in the case of consideration of the application for recusals by another judge, a ruling shall be delivered . the court shall resolve the issue of recusal without notifying the trial participants . failure by trial participants to attend a court hearing, in which the issue is being resolved, shall not prevent the court from considering the issue . a case shall be considered in the same court by another judge . the case parties include an applicant and a debtor . the composition of trial participants shall be determined by law . case parties shall show respect to the court and to other trial participants . trial participants and their representatives must exercise procedural rights in good faith . the court may recognise actions that contradict the task of commercial proceedings as an abuse of procedural right, in particular: submitting documents to the court in electronic form; giving oral evidence in paper form . the court is obliged to take measures to prevent abuse of procedural rights . individuals and legal entities shall be able to have procedural legal and dispositive capacity . the court shall have the right to leave without consideration an appeal, application, petition . minors between the ages of fourteen and eighteen may personally exercise procedural rights and perform their duties in the court . a minor who acquired full civil capacity in accordance with the procedure established by law shall also acquire procedural legal capacity . the parties to the proceedings, plaintiffs and defendants, may be persons defined in Article 4 of this Code . a change in the subject or grounds of a claim shall be allowed no later than five days before the first court hearing in a case . the parties may conclude a settlement agreement at any stage of the proceedings . court of first instance has the right to involve a co-defendant at the request of a plaintiff . court replaces the original defendant with the appropriate defendant without closing proceedings . a defendant replaced by another defendant may claim compensation for court costs . third parties who do not declare independent claims on the subject of a dispute may intervene in a case if the court ruling may affect their rights or obligations towards one of the parties . the court shall deliver a ruling on the involvement of third parties, in which it specifies the rights and obligations established by Article 42 of this Code . a party may acquire a right in relation to a third party or file claims against that person . such party must notify that person of the proceedings commencement . in cases established by law, state authorities, local governments, individuals and legal entities may apply to the court on behalf of others . a prosecutor who refers to the court on behalf of the state shall substantiate in a statement of claim or other statement, or the petition . the owner (participant, shareholder) of a legal entity who owns 10 or more percent of the share capital a company (except for preferred shares) may file a claim for compensation for damages caused by its official . in cases specified by law the prosecutor may participate in the consideration of cases on their claims . a legal entity shall acquire the status of a plaintiff, but shall not be entitled to exercise its procedural rights and obligations without the consent of the owner (participant, shareholder) who filed a claim . another co-owner who owns 10 or more percent of the share capital of the company (except for preferred shares) shall have the right to join to the filed claim by submitting a relevant application to the court . a party, a third party, as well as a person who referred to the court on behalf of the other person, may participate in the proceedings in person and (or) through a representative . a prosecutor enjoys the same right in order to resolve an issue of the existence of grounds for review of court rulings in a case without their participation . legal entities participate in a case through their head, member of executive body, other person authorised to act on their behalf . the interests of minors under the age of fourteen, as well as incapacitated individuals, shall be represented in the court by their parents, adoptive parents, guardians or other persons defined by law . a lawyer or a legal representative may act as a representative in court . a person who participates in a case as a court secretary, expert, specialist, interpreter and witness may not be a representative in court . judges, prosecutors, investigators, employees of operative-investigative units may not act as representatives . the powers of representatives of the parties and other case parties must be confirmed by documents . a representative may submit an application on the merits in electronic form . they may attach a power-of-attorney or warrant signed with an electronic digital signature . the assistant judge shall ensure the preparation and organisational support of the trial . court clerk shall check the trail participants appeared for court hearing . court administrator shall ensure the proper condition of the courtroom . the court administrator must ensure the observance of discipline by the trial participants . able-bodied individual who is aware of any circumstances relating to the case may be a witness . witnesses shall appear in court upon his/her summons at a certain time and give truthful testimony . incapable individuals as well as persons registered or treated in a psychiatric medical facility may not be interrogated as witnesses . a witness summoned by the court shall have no right to refuse to testify . a person with special knowledge necessary to clarify the relevant circumstances of the case may be an expert . the expert shall have the right to get acquainted with the case files, apply for additional files and samples . a person with a scientific degree and a recognised specialist in the field of law may be involved as a legal expert . a specialist has special knowledge and skills necessary for the use of technical means . the specialist shall have the right to know the purpose of his/her summons to court . interpreter is a person fluent in the language of proceedings and another language . participation of an interpreter who is qualified to communicate with the deaf is mandatory . interpreter shall appear in court upon summons, to provide a complete and accurate interpretation . a bank may be withdrawn from the market or liquidated on the basis of illegal (unlawful) individual acts of the national bank of Ukraine, deposit guarantee fund, ministry of finance of Ukraine . specific aspects for determining damage caused as a result of such withdrawal or liquidation shall be determined by the law of Ukraine "on banks and banking" and the law "on the individual deposit guarantee system" the court shall issue a ruling on accepting the party's refusal to recognise the circumstances . a guilty verdict of the court in criminal proceedings shall be binding on the commercial court . proper evidence shall be those, on the basis of which it is possible to establish the circumstances that are the subject of proof . the subject of proof shall be the circumstances confirming the stated claims or objections or having other significance for the consideration of the case . evidence obtained in violation of the law shall not be accepted by the court . a trial participant has the right to file a petition to demand evidence by the court . such a request must be filed within the period specified in Parts 2 and 3 of Article 80 of this Code . if it is impossible to provide evidence independently, a court participant may file an application . the court shall not accept evidence not submitted within the specified period . written, physical and electronic evidence that cannot be brought to court shall be examined at their location . the absence of these persons shall not constitute an obstacle to the examination . in the case of satisfaction of the petition the court demands the relevant evidence . a report shall be drawn up on the examination of evidence at their location, to be signed by all persons participating in the examination . the court may, at the request of a case party or on its own initiative, examine the website (page), other places of data storage on the Internet . perishable physical evidence shall be immediately examined by a court . the court considering the case or the application for the provision of evidence may instruct the relevant court to take certain procedural actions . a ruling on a court order shall be immediately executed by the court to which it is addressed . the court shall evaluate the relevance, admissibility, reliability of each piece of evidence . testimony of a witness shall mean a statement of circumstances relevant to the case . witnesses' testimony based on the reports of other persons shall not be considered evidence . parties, third parties and their representatives may be interrogated as witnesses . court has the right to oblige a trial participant to ensure the appearance of the witness . court shall warn a witness of criminal liability for knowingly false testimony . == Article 90. Interrogatory of the case parties as witnesses . written evidence shall be submitted in the original or in a duly certified copy . electronic copies shall not be considered as electronic proof . documents received by facsimile shall be accepted by the court . physical evidence shall refer to objects of the physical world . electronic evidence shall mean information in electronic (digital) form . data can be stored, in particular, on portable devices, mobile phones, servers . electronic evidence shall be submitted in the original or in an electronic copy certified by an electronic digital signature, equated to a handwritten signature . case parties shall have the right to submit electronic evidence in paper copies, certified in the manner prescribed by law . if the original electronic evidence is not submitted, the court may demand the original from the relevant person . court has the right to summon an expert to provide explanations on his/her opinion . expert conclusion shall indicate when, where, by whom, on what basis expert examination was conducted . court may order several expert examinations, additional or repeated expert examination . the expert or expert institution shall be elected by the parties by mutual consent . several experts may be appointed to prepare one conclusion . the questions posed to the expert and his conclusion thereon may not go beyond the expert's special knowledge . the court shall warn the expert of criminal responsibility for a knowingly false conclusion . a case party shall have the right to submit to the court an expert conclusion drawn up at his/her request . the procedure for conducting the expert examination and drawing up the expert conclusions shall be determined under the current legislation of Ukraine . the materials necessary for the expert examination shall be provided to the expert by the court . the expert shall have no right on his/her own initiative to collect materials for the examination . in case of evasion of a case party from providing the court with the materials or documents necessary to conduct an examination, the court may declare the fact as established or to refuse to establish it . an expert conclusion for a court shall not have the preliminary determined force . the court's rejection of the expert conclusion must be motivated in the judgment . an expert who does not agree with the conclusion of another expert (experts) shall provide a separate conclusion . the expert conclusion in the field of law shall not mean evidence, but an auxiliary (advisory) nature . the court shall provide evidence if there is reason to believe that the means of proof may be lost . an application for the provision of evidence may be filed with the court both before and after the filing of the statement of claim . provision of evidence prior to the filing of a statement of claim shall be carried out by the court of first instance at the location of the means of proof or at the place where the relevant procedural action must be performed . in case of failure to file a declaration of claim within the specified period, the court shall revoke the ruling on taking measures to provide evidence no later than the next day . application for provision of evidence shall be considered no longer than five days from the date of its receipt by the court . the court may provide evidence without notifying other persons who may obtain the status of case parties . at the request of the applicant, the court shall not notify the other party to the application . a ruling on the provision of evidence shall constitute an executive document . the court may order the applicant to provide compensation for damages . a period shall be reasonable if it provides for the sufficient time to implement the action . the period calculated in month shall end on the last day of the last month of the period . if the expiration falls on a weekend, holiday or other non-working day, the period ends on the first working day after it . the court on the case party's application shall renew the missed procedural period established by law if it finds the reasons for its omission valid . omission of the period established by law or court to the case party shall not release such party from the obligation to take the appropriate procedural action . a ruling to dismiss the renewal or extension of a procedural term may be appealed under the procedure established by this Code . service of a ruling to summon a witness or expert to a party who filed witness statement or expert conclusion, shall be considered appropriate summons, notification of such witness, expert . the court shall summon or notify the case parties by telephone, telegram, facsimile, e-mail or message via other means of communication (including mobile) a ruling that is used by the court to summon the trial participants to a court hearing or for participation in taking the relevant procedural action must contain the name (surname, name and patronymic) of an individual or name of a legal entity, to which the ruling is addressed . in the case of compensation for damage caused by its official and recognition of trademark (trademark for goods and services) well known, the ruling on commencement of proceedings and information on postponement of case consideration or announcement of session break shall be published  a ruling (or its web address in the unified state register of court decisions) shall be posted on the official web portal of the judiciary of Ukraine . a defendant, third party, witness, registered place of residence (stay), location or place of work of whom is unknown, shall be summoned to the court . court may oblige parties to deposit into the court's deposit account a predetermined amount of court costs related to the proceedings or a certain procedural action . court may reject the petition to summon a witness, appoint an expert, involve a specialist, interpreter, provide, request for or review of evidence at their location . security for court costs may be applied if the claim has signs of knowingly unfounded claim . court may decide to reimburse defendant's costs in whole or in part at the expense of this amount . costs related to the professional legal aid of a lawyer shall be borne by the parties . the amount of costs for the professional legal aid of a lawyer shall be determined pursuant to the contract on the provision of legal aid . a witness shall be reimbursed for the costs of the summons related to moving to another settlement and renting accommodation, as well as compensation for lost earnings or time-off from regular employment . an expert, specialist or interpreter shall be remunerated for works performed in relation to the case, if this is not part of their official duties . a person who has provided evidence at the request of a court shall have the right to demand payment of monetary compensation . court fees shall be charged from the defendant to the budget revenue proportionally to the amount of satisfied claims . court fees paid by the defendant shall be reimbursed by the state in the manner prescribed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the maximum amount of compensation for costs related to the examination of evidence at their location shall be established by the cabinet of ministers of ukraine . a court may refuse to reimburse court costs if they significantly exceed the amount stated in the preliminary (approximate) calculation . the amount of court costs that the party has paid or must pay in connection with the case shall be established by the court on the basis of evidence submitted by the parties . court costs in a dispute over compensation for damages caused to a legal entity by its official shall be charged in favour of the owners (participants, shareholders) who filed a claim on behalf of such legal entity . in case of partial satisfaction of the claim, the court may oblige the party on which a larger amount of court costs is imposed to pay the difference to the other party. in case of concluding a settlement agreement, the court shall decide to return the plaintiff from the state budget 50 percent of the court fee paid when filing a lawsuit . in the event of the plaintiff's waiver of the claim, the costs incurred by him/her shall not be reimbursed by the defendant . measures of procedural coercion shall be as follows: 1) a warning; 2) removal from the courtroom; 3) temporary seizure of evidence for examination by a court; 4) fine . the application of coercive measures to a person shall not release him/her from the performance of the obligations established by this Code . the court may rule to impose a fine in the amount of one to ten times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons on the relevant person . in case of repeated or systematic non-fulfillment of procedural obligations, recurrent or repeated abuse or non-submission of evidence . the resolution of the court of appeal based on the results of the review of such a ruling shall be final and not subject to appeal . a ruling of the Supreme Court to impose a fine shall not be subject to appeal . the court may revoke its decision if the person against whom it is imposed has remedied the breach . Article 136. Grounds for securing the claim 1. The claim may be secured by seizure of property and (or) funds . measures to secure the claim, other than the seizure of a sea-going vessel, shall be commensurable to the plaintiff's claims . it shall not be allowed to secure a claim by suspending the decisions (regulatory acts or individual acts) of the National Bank of Ukraine . imposing a ban or obligation of the Deposit Guarantee Fund of Individuals, a bank classified as insolvent . suspension of decisions approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . property (assets), including cash, seized by a court may be transferred to host or transitional bank . measures to secure the claim must not violate the rights of other shareholders (participants) of a company . it shall not be allowed to take measures which consist in (or result in) suspension, postponement, discontinuation or other interference in the process of tender, auction, bidding, tender or other public tender procedures . the procedure for filing an application for securing a claim shall be filed before filing a statement of claim . application for securing a claim in the form of seizure of a seagoing vessel shall be submitted in writing, signed by the applicant . it shall stipulate the name of the court where the application is filed, the subject of the claim and the justification of the need to secure the claim . if the claim is filed before the opening of proceedings, such application shall additionally stipulate the full title (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic) of other persons . application for securing the claim shall be considered by the court no later than two days from the date of its receipt . court may summon the person who filed the application to provide explanations or additional evidence . Depending on the circumstances of the case, the court may secure the claim in part . the court shall issue a ruling on securing the claim or refusing to secure the claim . the court may require the person who filed the claim, to provide compensation for possible damages of the defendant . a counter-security is carried out by depositing money in the deposit account of the court . counter-security measures must be commensurate with the measures on securiting the claim . a ruling on counter-securing may be appealed together with the decision on securing the claim or separately . the court may cancel a counter-secured claim if it is not fulfilled within a certain period . counter-security may be revoked by the court at the reasoned request of the defendant . in case of cancellation, funds deposited for the purpose of counter security shall be returned . a court ruling to cancel the counter security or to refuse to cancel it may be appealed . counter-security shall be cancelled if within twenty days from the date of the court decision on cancellation of measures to secure the claim, none of the persons whose rights or legally protected interests have been violated will not file a claim on compensation for damages in the manner prescribed by Article 146 of this Code . commercial court ruling on securing the claim shall be an executive document . ruling on seize of a seagoing vessel shall be basis for detention of vessel . court may cancel the measures to secure the claim on its own initiative or at reasoned request . measures to secure the claim shall continue to apply within ninety days from the date of entry into force of the said judgment or may be revoked at the reasoned petition of the case party . in case of leaving the claim without consideration, closing the proceedings or making a decision on complete refusal to satisfy the claim, the court in the relevant judgment shall state on the cancellation of measures on securing the claim . a person who has the right of claim may file an application to get a court order . court order may be issued only for claims for recovery of monetary debt under a contract concluded in writing (including electronic form) if the amount of the claim does not exceed 100 times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons . court fee in the amount established by law shall be charged for submission of an application for issuance of a court order . the applicant shall have the right to withdraw the application before its consideration by the court . the amount of the court fee paid for submission of an application for issuance of a court order shall not be returned to the debt recoverer . the judge shall issue a ruling on the refusal not later than ten days from the date of receipt by the court of the application . if the application is submitted by a person without a procedural dispositive legal capacity, is not signed or is signed by someone who is not entitled to sign it . the judge shall check the debtor's location specified in the application . if it is established that the application for issuance of a court order is not subject to this court, the court shall adopt a ruling no later than ten days from the date of receipt of the court order . the court order shall be drawn up and signed by the judge in two counterparts . it shall be sent to the recoverer at their official e-mail address or by registered letter with acknowledgment of receipt, or a registered mail with declared value and list of enclosures after the order is entered into force . after issuing a court order, not later than the next day, the court shall send its copy (text) containing the information on the web-address of such a decision to the debtor . concurrently with a copy of the court order and recoverer's application for the issuance of court order shall be sent . within fifteen days from the date of service of the order and the documents attached to it, a debtor shall have the right to submit an application for its cancellation to the court that issued an application for revocation of a court order shall be submitted to the judge appointed under the procedure established by Article 32 of this Code no later than the next day . the judge shall issue a ruling on its return not later than two days from the date of its receipt by the court . if the court finds no grounds to renew the period for filing this application, it shall return it . court order enters into force if the court does not receive from the debtor an application for cancellation of the court order within five days after the expiration of the term for its submission . the case parties shall state their claims, objections, arguments, explanations and considerations on the subject of the dispute in the written form, as determined by this Code . in the decision to revoke a court order, the judge shall explain to the applicant (recoverer) his/her right to apply to the court with the same requirements the parties shall have a right to submit applications on the merits of the case . in the statement of claim, the plaintiff shall set out his/her claims on the subject matter of the dispute with the relevant justification . the court may allow a case party to submit additional explanations on a particular issue . if the claim is filed by a person exempt from payment of court fees under the law, it shall indicate the grounds for exemption of the plaintiff from payment . in lawsuits for recovery of funds, the cost claim shall be equal to the amount that is collected, or the amount disputed under the executive . the plaintiff shall attach to the statement of claim all the evidence available to him/her confirming the circumstances on which the claims are based . a copy (or original) of the disputed act or contract or a certified extract therefrom shall be attached . the defendant shall set out the objections to the claim in the defence . a copy of the defence and the documents attached hereto shall be sent to other case parties concurrently with the defence being sent (provided) to the court . if the defence does not indicate the defendant's disagreement with any of the circumstances, on which the claims are based, the defendant shall be deprived of the right to object to such a circumstance . defence shall be filed within the period established by the court, which may not be less than fifteen days from the date of service of the decision to initiate proceedings . if the defendant fails to provide a defence within the prescribed period, the court shall consider the case based on the available materials . in the objection, the defendant shall set out his/her explanations, considerations and arguments . a third party's explanations shall be subject to the rules established by this Code . the court shall set a time limit that will allow the third party to prepare his/her arguments . statements, petitions and objections must be submitted in written or oral form . the requirement to indicate the identification code of a legal entity applies only to legal entities registered under the legislation of Ukraine . a foreign legal entity shall submit a document that is proof of its legal personality under the relevant foreign law (registration certificate, extract from the commercial register, etc.). a single statement of claim may combine several claims related to the basis of origin or the evidence submitted . a derivative claim shall mean a claim whose satisfaction depends on the satisfaction of another claim . the court may, at the request of a case party or on its own initiative, combine several cases into one proceeding . the statement of claim was submitted in violation of Articles 162, 164 and 172 of this Code . within five days from the date of receipt, the court shall adopt a ruling to leave it without motion . if the plaintiff has eliminated the shortcomings of the statement within the period established by the court, it shall be considered filed . a judge shall refuse to open the proceedings if: 1) the application is not subject to consideration under the rules of commercial proceedings . the judge shall return the statement of claim and the documents attached hereto no later than five days from the date of its receipt . a ruling of the arbitral court, international commercial arbitration, delivered within its jurisdiction in Ukraine on a dispute between the same parties . the ruling to refuse to open proceedings in the case shall be adopted no later than five days from the date of receipt of the statement . a copy of the claim materials shall remain in court. in case of revocation of this ruling, the statement of claim shall be considered submitted on the day of the initial appeal to the court . court shall open proceedings within five days from the date of receipt of the statement of claim . if the defendant is an individual who is not an entrepreneur, the court shall initiate proceedings . court shall issue a ruling stating the name of the commercial court, surname and initials of the judge who opened the proceedings, case number . if the issue of involving third parties was resolved at the opening of the proceedings, the plaintiff shall send copies of the statement of claim with appendices to such third parties . the ruling to initiate proceedings in the case shall be sent to the case parties, as well as to other persons, if evidence is requested from them . the statement of claim was filed in violation of the requirements set forth in this Code . the judge shall issue a ruling not later than the next day stating the grounds for leaving the statement without motion . if the plaintiff has eliminated the deficiencies within the period established by the court, the court shall continue consideration of the case . third parties who do not state independent claims on the subject matter of the dispute have the right to submit written explanations on the claim or defence . a counter-claim filed in violation of the requirements of Parts 1 and 2 of this Article shall be returned to the applicant by a court ruling . a preparatory hearing shall be held by the court with a notification to be sent to the case parties . the court shall decide on the entry of other persons into the case proceedings, replacement of the improper defendant, involvement of the co-defendant, acceptance of the counter-claim, if these issues have not been resolved before . the procedure of the preparatory hearing shall be held in accordance with the rules provided for in Articles 196–205 of this Code . in the case of involvement of a third party to the participation or entry into the case, replacement of an improper defendant, involvement of co-defendant, the court shall continue consideration of the case . third parties have the right to apply for consideration of the case no later than two days from the date when the relevant ruling has been serviced to them . if the case is considered from the beginning, the court shall appoint and hold a preparatory hearing . in the event of non-fulfilment by a case party of the requirements set out in the ruling to open the proceedings in the case . if the plaintiff before the end of the preparatory proceedings filed an application for invalidation of the transaction in whole or in part related to the dispute subject, contrary to law, the court shall give the time for the defendant and other case participants to prepare their explanations and objections to the filed application . the parties shall have the right to participate in such meetings by videoconference . joint meetings shall be held with the participation of all parties, their representatives and judges . during closed meetings, the judge may suggest to the parties a possible way of peaceful dispute settlement . a dispute with the participation of a judge may be terminated for a number of reasons . a ruling on the termination of settlement shall be issued, which shall not be subject to appeal . the case shall be transferred to another judge, determined under Article 33 of this Code . settlement with participation of a judge shall be carried out within a reasonable period . the plaintiff may withdraw a claim, and the defendant may recognise the claim . a settlement agreement shall be concluded by the parties for the purpose of settlement a dispute . a statement agreement between the parties shall be approved by a court ruling . the operative part of the ruling shall specify the terms of settlement agreement . approving the settlement agreement, the court shall concurrently close the proceedings . proceedings in the case at the stage of its consideration on the merits shall be suspended only on the grounds established by Paragraphs 1–3, Part 1, Article 227 and Article 228 of this Code . the case party shall have the right to apply a petition for consideration of the case in his/her absence . the court may decide on the participation of a case party in a court hearing by videoconference in the courtroom designated by the court . a witness, an interpreter, a specialist, an expert may participate in the hearing only in courtroom . the court providing the videoconference shall check the attendance and identify the persons who appeared . the presiding judge shall direct the course of the court hearing . he shall ensure observance of the sequence and order of procedural actions . the issue of bringing a party to the case or another person to justice for contempt of court shall be decided by the court immediately after committing the offence . consideration of the case on the merits shall begin when a presiding judge announces the court hearing opened . non-appearance at a court hearing of any case party, provided that he/she has been duly notified of the date, time and place of that hearing, shall not preclude consideration of case on merits, except as provided in this Article . the court shall hear the case in the absence of such a case party due to the following reasons: 1) the case party's non- the consequences specified in Parts 3 and 4 of this Article shall also commence if the case party (his/her representative) leaves the courtroom . in case of non-appearance of a witness, expert, specialist, interpreter in court, the court shall hear the opinion of the parties on the possibility of consideration of the case . witnesses shall be excluded from the courtroom without being able to get acquainted with the course of the court hearing . the court shall leave without consideration statements and petitions which have not been filed in the preparatory proceedings . court shall clarify the circumstances to which the parties refer as basis of their claims and objections . court may change the procedure for clarification of the case circumstances and examination of evidence . evidence that was not the subject of the examination at the court hearing may not be used by the court as the basis for the judgment . presiding judge and other judges may ask questions to the witness at any time during his/her interrogation . a witness may be interrogated repeatedly or simultaneously with another witness to determine the reasons for the discrepancy between their testimony and that of other witnesses . witnesses may use written records only if their testimony is related to any calculations and other data that are difficult to remember . court may use oral consultations or written explanations (conclusions) of specialists . the specialist may be asked questions on the merits of the consultations . court may postpone the case consideration in the events established by Part 2 of Article 202 . proceedings in the case shall be resumed from the stage at which the break was announced . in judicial debates, the case parties shall deliver speeches (closing address) the court shall leave to the deliberation room to adopt a decision . court hearing shall be held no later than fifteen days from the date when the decision on the merits of the claims has been adopted . if there are objections from any of the trial participants against the full recording of the court hearing with the help of video recording equipment, such recording shall be carried out only by audio recording equipment . minutes of court hearing shall be kept by the secretary of the court hearing . within five days from the date of signing the minutes in the case, the case parties have the right to review the technical record of the trial and the minutes . the court shall deliver a ruling that takes into account the comments or rejects them . the court shall leave the claim without consideration if: 1) the claim is filed by a person who does not have procedural dispositive legal capacity; 2) the statement of claim was not signed or was signed by someone whose official position is not specified; 3) the plaintiff (their representative) failed to submit the evidence required by the court necessary to resolve a dispute; 4) the plaintiff did not contribute the funds to secure the court costs of the defendant; 5) the plaintiff before the start of the case on the merits filed an application to the court shall be obliged to suspend the proceedings in the case of: a) the parties entered into an agreement to transfer this dispute to arbitration court or international commercial arbitration; b) the proceedings were opened on the application filed in violation of the requirements set forth in Articles 162, 164 and 172, 173 of this Code . a ruling to leave the claim without consideration may be appealed . court may suspend the proceedings in the following cases . death of a case party or a third party with independent claims regarding the subject of the dispute . court may not suspend proceedings if the absent party conducts the case through his/her representative. court shall deliver a ruling on the issues specified in this Article. Article 228. Resumption of proceedings 1. Proceedings in the case shall be resumed at the request of the case parties or at the initiative of the court no later than ten days from the date of receipt by the court of the notice of elimination of the circumstances that caused its suspension . the commercial court shall close the proceedings if: 1) the dispute is not subject to resolution in commercial proceedings; 2) there is no subject of the dispute; 3) the plaintiff waived the claim and the waiver was accepted by the court; 4) the parties concluded an agreement to transfer the dispute to international commercial arbitration or arbitration court . if the court receives a case to be resolved in a commercial proceeding after the closure of the proceedings by the Supreme Court or the court of appeal in commercial or administrative proceedings . repeated appeal to the court regarding the same dispute shall not be allowed . the court shall deliver a ruling on the closure of the case proceedings . Article 233. Procedure for adoption of judgments 1. Courts shall adopt judgments and rulings on behalf of Ukraine immediately after the case consideration ends . the court may decide on the distribution of court costs in an additional judgment after the judgment on the merits of the case has been adopted . court rulings issued by a separate document shall be signed by the judge (judges) and attached to the case . all judgments shall be set out in writing in paper and electronic forms . a ruling adopted under Articles 351 and 356 of this Code shall comply with the requirements contained in those Articles . a reasoned decision means the decision made on the basis of fully and comprehensively clarified circumstances, supported by the evidence that was examined at the hearing . the judgment shall consist of introductory, descriptive, reasoning and operative parts . the court may invalidate the unlawful deed in whole or in part that is related to the subject of the dispute . while adopting a decision, the court must not go beyond the claims . the operative part of the judgment shall contain the conclusion of the court . it may not depend on the occurrence or non-occurrence of certain circumstances . the judgment may also contain the procedure and period for the judgment enforcement . when adopting a decision in favour of several plaintiffs or against several defendants, the court shall indicate the part of the decision which applies to each of them . the final amount of interest (late charge) in this case shall be calculated according to the rules specified in the judgment . securing the judgment enforcement shall be cancelled after the defendant has fully complied with the judgment. the commercial judgment shall take legal effect after the expiration of the term for filing an appeal if the appeal has not been filed . the judgment shall be pronounced in a court hearing, which concludes the consideration of the case, in public . in case of filing an appeal, the judgment, if it is not revoked, shall take effect after the return of the appeal . full duplicate judgments shall be served to the case parties who were present at the court hearing . a copy of the full judgment shall be sent to the person against a receipt directly in court . duplicate judgments shall be served by sending to the relevant person a copy (text) of the full or abbreviated judgment, containing information about the web-address of such judgment in the unified state register of court decisions . a person who did not take part in the case, but in respect of whom the court has decided on their rights, interests and (or) obligations, may obtain a duplicate decision approved by the court of any instance . the court may correct clerical errors or arithmetic errors made in the judgment or ruling . the application for entering corrections shall be considered within ten days after its receipt . an additional judgment may be adopted if no decision has been adopted in respect of any claim . the court shall explain the judgment that has entered into force, without changing the content of the judgment . if necessary, the court may summon the case parties, public or private executor at the court hearing . in a separate ruling, court shall indicate the law or other regulatory act, whose requirements are violated . a separate ruling may be issued by a court of first instance, court of appeal or court of cassation . in the simplified action proceedings the following minor cases shall be considered . a ruling on the prosecutor or lawyer shall be sent to the authority whose powers include disciplinary responsibility . the court shall consider cases by way of simplified action proceedings within a reasonable period, but not more than sixty days from the date of the opening of the proceedings . the court may refuse to consider the case under the rules of general proceedings if after the court accepts the plaintiff's application to increase the size of claims or change the subject of the claim the case cannot be considered . the issue of case consideration in simplified action proceedings shall be resolved by the court . the court may satisfy the petition and set a period for the defendant to file an objections . if the defendant does not file such objections within the period prescribed, the court shall issue a ruling on dismissal . consideration of a case by way of simplified action proceedings shall be carried out by a court . the first court hearing in the case shall be held no later than thirty days from day of the case proceedings opening . at the petition of one of the parties, the court may postpone the case in order to provide additional time to file a response to defence and (or) objection . the nature of the disputed legal relationship and the subject of proof in the case do not require a court hearing with notification of the parties . if the circumstances set forth by a witness in the statement contradict other evidence, the court shall not take into account the testimony of the witness . Appeals against court rulings not provided for in Article 255 of this Code shall not be allowed separately from a judgment . a person who did not participate in the case, but the court decided on their rights, interests and (or) obligations, enjoys procedural rights . the court of first instance may appeal rulings on the refusal to issue a court order, on the provision of evidence, refusal to provide evidence, revocation of the ruling on providing evidence . Appeals against judgments of the court of first instance may be filed by the case parties in accordance with this Code and the Law of Ukraine "On Restoring a Debtor's Solvency or Recognising It Bankrupt" 2. Objections to the rulings that are not subject to appeal separately from the judgment shall be included in the appeal against the judgment . the specified period for appeal shall be calculated from the date when the full judgment has been executed . a case party who has not been served with a full judgment or ruling on the day of its pronouncement or execution, shall have the right to renew the missed period . the term for appeal may also be renewed in case of omission for other valid reasons . appeal shall be registered on the day of its receipt by the court of appeal . it shall be transferred to the judge-rapporteur determined under the procedure . an appeal shall also be left without motion if it has been filed after the expiration of the periods established by Article 256 of this Code . an appeal shall not be accepted for consideration and shall be returned by the court of appeal if it has been filed by a person who has no procedural dispositive legal capacity . a ruling on the return of an appeal may be appealed in cassation procedure . the court of appeal shall refuse to open appeal proceedings if the appeal is filed after the expiration of one year from the date when the full text of a judgment has been executed . the issue of refusal to initiate appellate proceedings shall be resolved no later than five days from the receipt of the appeal . before the commencement of appeal proceedings, the case parties shall have the right to file an objection to the proceedings . if applications or petitions are filed together with the appeal, the court in the ruling to open cassation proceedings shall the case parties shall have the right to submit to the court of appeal a defence to the appeal . the absence of defence to appeal shall not preclude the review of the judgment . court shall close the appellate proceedings if the person who filed the appeal has lodged a petition to withdraw the appeal, except in cases where there are objections . the case parties shall have the right to join the appeal lodged by the person by whose side they acted . the judge-rapporteur shall: prepare the case for consideration by the court of appeal; prepare the appeal for appeal review . if the appeal is rejected, and other persons who joined the appeal do not have objections, the court shall issue a ruling to close appeal proceedings . a commercial court of first instance must clarify the composition of a trial . it must also determine the nature of the disputed legal relationship and the law governing it . the preparatory actions specified in Paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Article must be performed in compliance with the rights of all litigants . court of appeal shall review the case based on the evidence available in it and additionally submitted . evidence that has not been submitted to the court of first instance shall be accepted in exceptional cases . the court shall not be limited by the arguments and claims contained in the appeal . the court of appeal shall let the litigants speak in the same sequence as they gave explanations in the judicial debate . Appeals against judgments of the commercial court in cases with a claim value less than 100 times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons shall be considered . court of appeal may consider appeals in court hearing with notification of the case parties . an appeal against a judgment of the court of first instance shall be considered within 60 days . in cases of revocation, the case (application) shall be referred to the court in first instance . an appeal against a ruling, resolution of the court of first instance in bankruptcy (insolvency) shall be considered within 60 days from the date of delivery of the ruling to open appeal proceedings in the case . the plaintiff shall have the right to waive a claim, and the parties shall be authorised to conclude a settlement agreement . the court of appeal shall dismiss the appeal and the leave the judgment unchanged . grounds for judgment revocation in whole or in part and adoption of a new judgment in the relevant part or change of judgment shall be incomplete clarification of the circumstances relevant to the case . incorrect application of substantive law shall mean: misinterpretation of the law, or application of law that is not applicable . a judgment of the court of first instance adopted as a result of the case consideration shall be revoked in whole or in part with the closure of the proceedings . the death of an individual who is a party to the dispute or termination of a legal entity, which does not allow succession, may not be grounds for applying Part 1 of this Article . case shall not be subject to a new consideration due to violations of territorial jurisdiction . grounds for revocation of a court ruling, which prevents further proceedings in the case, shall be incomplete clarification by the court of the circumstances relevant to the case . following the appeal review, court of appeal shall adopt judgments in the form of resolutions . resolutions shall be executed by the judge-rapporteur and signed by all judges . the resolution of the court of appeal may be appealed under cassation procedure . the resolution adopted by the appellate court shall be pronounced under the rules established by Article 240 of this Code . the resolution of the court of appeal shall take legal effect from the date of its adoption . the case shall be returned within five days to the court that considered it . a cassation appeal may be filed against the following rulings . the grounds for cassation appeal of the court judgments referred to in Paragraphs 1, 4, Part 1 of this Article shall be the incorrect application by the court of appeal in the appealed judgment . the appeal shall not concern the issue of law, which is fundamental for the formation of a unified law enforcement practice . a cassation appeal against a judgment shall be filed within 20 days from the day of its pronouncement . a litigant who has not been served with a full judgment has the right to renew the missed period . the appeal shall contain the following: 1) name of the court of cassations instance; 2) date and place of hearing; 3) reason for appeal; and 4) a statement of the reasons for appeal . cassation appeal shall contain the judgment of the Supreme Court, containing the conclusion on the rule of law applied in such legal relations, which was not taken into account in the appealed judgment . the appeal shall state the justification of the incorrect application of substantive law or violation of procedural law, which has led to miscarriage of justice . a cassation appeal shall be left without motion if it has been filed after the expiration of the periods established by Article 288 of this Code . the person who filed it shall have the right to apply to the court of appeal to renew the period or indicate other grounds for renewal . a cassation appeal shall not be accepted for consideration if it has been filed by a person who has no procedural dispositive legal capacity . the judge-rapporteur shall decide on leaving the appeal without motion, within twenty days from the date of receipt of the appeal . a duplicate ruling to return the appeal shall be sent to the appellant . the appellant has not filed an application for renewal of the period for cassation appeal . the Supreme Court has already stated a conclusion in its ruling regarding the application of the rule of law in such legal relations . a ruling to refuse to open appeal proceedings must be signed by the entire court. a duplicate ruling to refuse to open cassation proceedings shall be sent to the person who filed the appeal . the case parties shall have the right to submit a defence to the appeal in writing . a court may suspend enforcement of the ruling or revoke it if it is impossible to suspend enforcement . cassation proceedings shall be closed if the person who filed the appeal has lodged a petition to withdraw the appeal, except in cases where there are objections of other case parties . the Supreme Court shall close the cassations proceedings if it is established that the judgment has not resolved the issues on the rights, interests and (or) obligations of such person . in the event of a ruling to initiate cassaison proceedings is also motivated by other grounds due to which there are no reasons to close the proceedings . a cassation appeal is an appeal against a decision of the supreme court . the court has found that the conclusion on the application of the rule of law concerns legal relations that are not similar . a person who has filed a case appeal shall have the right to supplement or change it . the court of cassation shall have the right not to accept the refuse to file an appeal or its withdrawal on the grounds specified in Part 5, Article 191 of this Code . the judge-rapporteur within 10 days shall prepare a report, in which they set out the circumstances necessary for adoption of a judgment . consideration of cases in the court of cassation shall commence with the opening of the first court hearing or in fifteen days if the case is considered without notification of the case parties . the rulings of the courts of first instance and of appeal shall be reviewed without notifying the cases parties, except for cases that are not subject to simplified proceedings . a court which considers a case under cassation procedure shall refer the case to a chamber to which such a panel is a member . if the panel deems it necessary to derogate from the conclusion on the application of the rule of law in such legal relations, set out in a previously adopted judgment of the Supreme Court . the case shall be referred to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court if a case party lodges an appeal against the judgment . the case party who is appealing the judgment did not allege a violation of the rules of subject-matter or personal jurisdiction . a judge who does not agree with the judgment to refer a case to a chamber, a joint chamber or Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court shall state his/her separate opinion in writing . a ruling adopted by courts of first instance and appellate courts may be appealed under cassation procedure in the cases provided for in Clauses 2, 3, Part 1, Article 287 of this Code. appeals against rulings that are not subject to appeal separately from the judgment or resolution of the court shall be included in the cassation appeal against the relevant ruling . in the event of the opening of cassations proceedings on such an appeal, the court may revoke the previously adopted ruling and judgments under appeal . a cassation appeal shall be considered within sixty days, and against rulings provided for in Clauses 2, 3, Part 1, Article 287 of this Code within thirty days . the plaintiff shall have the right to waive a claim, and the parties shall be authorised to conclude a settlement agreement under the general rules of these procedural actions . a substantively correct and lawful judgment cannot be revoked for formal reasons alone . a judgment adopted in violation of the rules of instance or territorial jurisdiction shall not be reevoked if the case party who filed the cassation appeal did not declare non-jurisdiction of the case . a court may revoke a judgment in whole or in part and adopt a new judgment in the relevant part or amend it if it has been adopted through incorrectly applied rules of the substantive law and violation of the procedure law . the grounds for revocation of judgments shall be violations of substantive or procedural law, which led to the wrongful ruling adopted by the court of first instance . a change in a judgment may consist in supplementing or changing its reasoning and (or) operative parts . the court of cassation shall revoke the resolution adopted by the appellate court in whole or in part . a violation of the rules of the commercial courts jurisdiction shall be a mandatory ground for revocation of the decision . if the court of cassation closes the proceedings, the court shall refer the case . if there are grounds for the jurisdiction of the case, the plaintiff at his/her choice shall indicate only one court, whose jurisdiction includes the resolution of the dispute . the ruling shall be executed by the judge-rapporteur and signed by all judges . the resolution adopted by the court of cassation shall be pronounced under the rules established by Article 240 of this Code . the resolution shall contain a conclusion on how exactly the rule of law shall be applied, after a panel of judges, the chamber, the joint chamber refused to apply it . resolution of the court of cassation shall take legal effect from the date of its adoption . resolutions and rulings adopted by court of first instance or court of appeal lose their legal effect . duplicate judgments shall be reissued by the court that considered such a case . judgments, resolutions and rulings of the commercial court, the high intellectual property court may be revised due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances . grounds for review of judgments due to the exceptional circumstances shall be: 1) the circumstances that are significant for the case, not established by the court . 2) providing a knowingly incorrect expert conclusion, knowingly false testimony of a witness, forgery of written, material or electronic evidence . an application for the review of a judgment due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances may be filed by the case parties within thirty days from the date when the person became aware or could become aware about the existence of circumstances . the periods specified in Part 2 of this Article may not be renewed. an application for review of a judgment adopted by the court of first instance on the grounds specified in Part 2, Clauses 1, 3, Part 3, Article 320 of this Code shall be submitted to the court that adopted the judgment . applications for the review of judgments on newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances in form and content shall meet the requirements of this code . a request to review judgments upon discovery of new or extraordinary circumstances shall state: 1) name of the court where the application is addressed, case number; 2) full title (for legal entities) petition of a person requesting a duplicate judgement adopted by an international judicial institution whose jurisdiction is recognised in Ukraine . a court fee shall not be recovered for filing and consideration of an application for review . request to review the court decision upon discovery of new or exceptional circumstances, which has been filed with the court, shall be transmitted to a judge . a person who has waived of an application for review of a judgment due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances may not re-apply to the court with the same application on the same grounds . a court shall consider the case in a hearing within thirty days from the day of opening the proceedings . the Supreme Court may also revoke the judgment in whole or in part . judgments adopted by other courts shall cease to be effective after the newly adopted judgment has entered into force . failure to comply with a judgment shall be the basis for liability established by law . court orders shall be set out in electronic form using the unified judiciary information and telecommunication system . an order, a court order, and a judgment in the cases established by this Code, shall be the enforcement documents . within five days after the entry into force of the judgment, the enforcement document shall be entered into the Unified State Register of Enforcement Documents . its duplicate (text) shall be sent to the recoverer to his/her official e-mail address . court that issued the enforcement document may correct the error made in its execution or issuance . court shall recognise enforcement document as unenforceable if it was issued erroneously . in case of missed period for presentation of the order, court order for enforcement due to the grounds recognised by the court as reasonable, the missed term may be renewed . a settlement agreement between the parties or an application for refusal of the recoverer from enforcement in the process of the judgment enforcement shall be submitted in writing to the court that issued the enforcement document . at the request of the party, the court may postpone the enforcement of a judgment or extend the period of its enforcement . a ruling shall be issued, which is subject to appeal, on postponement of enforcement . the court of cassation may suspend the enforcement of the appealed judgment . it may also revoke it (if the judgment does not provide for compulsory enforcement) if the arbitral award is revoked, the debtor shall be returned all that has been recovered from him/her in favour of the recoverer under the specified judgment . the issue on reversal of enforcement of a judgment shall be resolved by the court in the presence of the relevant application of the party . the ruling to replace a party to the enforcement proceedings shall be sent (provided) to the case parties, as well as to the state executor, private executor under the procedure provided for in Article 242 of this Code . Article 335. Determining the share of the debtor's property in the property he/she owns together with other persons . at the recoverer's request the court may seize money in accounts (deposits) or in custody in banks or other financial institutions . the court shall adopt a ruling to satisfy the application for recovery of money belonging to the person owing to a debtor, or to dismiss it . temporary restraint of an individual's right to leave Ukraine may be applied by the court . a ruling may be delivered upon recommendation of the state or private executor . the parties to enforcement proceedings have the right to appeal to the courts . a missed period for filing an appeal due to reasonable grounds may be renewed by the court . the appeal shall be considered within ten days at the court hearing . if the appeal is reasoned, the court shall recognise the appealed judgments, actions or inaction as illegal . parties, third parties, as well as persons who did not participate in the case have the right to apply to the court to revoke the arbitral judgment . an application for revocation of an arbitral award shall be filed to the commercial court of appeal at the venue of proceedings administered by the arbitration court . the court shall deliver a ruling to refuse to commence proceedings on the grounds provided for in Clauses 1–3 and 6, Part 1, Article 175 of this Code . a copy of the award of the permanent arbitration court shall be certified by a notary . a duly certified duplicate of the arbitral award for resolving a specific dispute shall also be certified . the application must be accompanied by the original award or a certified copy . the rules of Article 174 of this Code shall apply to an application for revocation of the arbitral award filed in violation of the requirements specified in this Article . in case of non-submission of the specified documents the application shall be returned, subject to adoption of the relevant ruling by the court. the arbitral award may be revoked only in the cases provided for in this Article . the commercial court shall adopt a ruling under the rules established by this Code . by virtue of the considered case on appealing, the commercial judge shall adopt the award . the commercial court ruling to revoke the arbitral award may be appealed . the court ruling shall enter into force after the period for appeal expires . an application on the issuance of an order of enforcement must be submitted within three years . a copy of the award of the permanent arbitration court shall be certified by a notary . a duly certified duplicate of the arbitral award for resolving a specific dispute shall also be attached . the provisions of Article 174 of this Code shall apply in case of non-payment of the court fee . in case of filing an application on the issuance of an order of enforcement for the arbitral award compulsory enforcement in electronic form, the applicant must submit such documents to the court before the consideration of the said application commences . non-submission of the specified documents shall be returned without consideration, subject to adoption of the relevant ruling by the court . any party to the arbitration proceedings in a due manner and period shall have the right to apply to the court to revoke this award . the court shall adopt a ruling on joint consideration of the application for the issuance of an order of enforcement for the arbitral award compulsory enforcement . commercial court shall adopt a ruling on issuance of an order of enforcement for the arbitral award compulsory enforcement or on refusal to issue it . commercial court ruling may be appealed by the parties in the appellate procedure determined for appealing the judgments of the court of first instance . lost judicial proceedings may be restored at the request of a case party or on the initiative of the court . an application for full or partial restoration of the lost proceedings shall be submitted in writing to the court which considered the case as a court of first instance . an application for restoration of the lost judicial proceedings may be filed to the court . court may renew this period if, at the request of the applicant, it finds the grounds for its omission reasonable . in the case of non-compliance with the requirements determined by Article 360, the rules of Article 174 of this Code shall apply . the court may interrogate witnesses of the persons who were present during the proceedings, participants in the case (their representatives) and perform other procedural actions . on the basis of the collected and verified materials, the court shall adopt a ruling on the restoration of the lost judicial proceedings fully or in a certain part deemed by it as necessary for restoration . in the case of restoration of the lost judicial proceedings, the applicant shall be released from court costs . foreign nationals have the same procedural rights and obligations as citizens of Ukraine with the exceptions established by law or an international treaty ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . court instruction for the provision of legal aid shall be made in Ukrainian . a certified translation to the official language of an appropriate state shall be attached . court order shall not be admitted for the enforcement if it may lead to violation of the sovereignty of Ukraine or to endanger its national security . procedural actions may be executed in the course of enforcement of the court order by application of the law of another state, if such application does not contradict to the laws of Ukraine . foreign court order as to the serving of a court summons or other documents shall be enforced within the court hearing or by the authorised court officer . if a person who is to be serviced the court summons or other documents on behalf of a foreign court is in custody or is serving a sentence of life imprisonment, imprisonment for a definite term, detention in a penal military unit, restriction of freedom, such documents shall be deemed as served . court instruction for serving documents to the citizen of Ukraine, who lives in a foreign state, may be executed by the employees of diplomatic mission or consular post of Ukraine in the relevant state . court order for taking certain procedural actions in respect of a citizen of ukraine residing in foreign state may be enforced . in the course of execution of the court instruction, the procedural law of Ukraine shall apply . part 2 of Article 159 in terms of sending a duplicate court order containing information about the web-address of the court order in the unified state register of enforcement documents . part 8, Article 356 of this Code shall come into force 30 days after publication by the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine in holos Ukrayiny newspaper . commercial cases shall be considered at a joint hearing of the relevant chambers of the Supreme Court of Ukraine . appeals against judgments in commercial cases, which are filed and pending before this version of the Code entered into force, shall be transferred to the Commercial Court of Cassation . a court considering a case under cassation procedure shall refer the case to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court . if such a panel or chamber (joint chamber) deems it necessary to derogate from the conclusion on the application of the rule of law in such legal relations . applications and appeals submitted before this version of the Code enters into force, proceedings on which are not open at the time, shall be considered under the rules that are effective after it enters in force . the judgments adopted by courts of first instance before this edition of the code enter into force shall become effective and may be appealed within the period in force before . before the day when the unified judicial information and telecommunication system starts functioning: 17.1) submission, registration, sending of procedural and other documents, evidence, formation appeals and cassation appeals shall be filed by the case parties or through the relevant courts . publication of information on the case specified in this version of the Code shall be carried out in the manner prescribed by the Regulations on the automated document management system of the court . the relevant court shall return such appeal without consideration . if the case is not available in the relevant court, the court shall request for it from the lower court within five days from the date of receipt of the application . the filing of appeals or cassation appeals against the rulings adopted by the courts of first instance or appellate courts shall not prevent further consideration of the case by this court . in the case of filing an appeal against a ruling that is not subject to appeal separately from a judgment, this court shall return it to the applicant . court shall be obliged to suspend proceedings of the case until the ruling is reviewed under the appellate or cassation proceedings . duplicate court rulings shall be issued by the court where the case is kept at the time of receipt of the relevant application . the unified judicial information and telecommunication system shall start functioning 90 days after the announcement . a court fee in the amount of 0.03 times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons shall be charged for the issuance of a duplicate enforcement document to the recoverer . the provisions of this Code shall be applied taking into account Sub-clause 11 of Clause 16–1 of Section XV “Transitional Provisions” of the Constitution of Ukraine . if the court whose jurisdiction under the requirements of procedural law includes resolving the issue on restoration of lost proceedings is located in the temporarily 