putting products into circulation shall mean actions of a business entity aimed at manufacturing or importing into the customs territory of Ukraine the products . warranty period shall mean a term within which the manufacturer (seller, contractor or any other person) undertakes to repair or replace relevant products due to putting them into circulation on a free-of-charge basis . contract shall mean an agreement entered into by and between a seller (contractor) and a consumer using telecommunication facilities . electronic notification shall mean information provided to a consumer via the telecommunication networks . material defect shall mean a defect, which makes it impossible or unacceptable to use the goods according to its designated purpose . unfair business practices shall mean any business activity or inactivity contrary to the rules, trade or other fair customs . consumer shall mean an individual who purchases, orders, uses or intends to purchase or order the products for personal needs . technically sophisticated household goods shall mean non-food fast-moving consumer goods . the term “medicinal devices” shall have the meaning given in this Law given in the Law of Ukraine “On the use of cash registers in the sphere of trade, public catering and services”. consumers shall have the right to protection of their rights by the state . they shall also have other rights determined by the legislation on the protection of consumers’ rights . consumers shall be obliged to: 1) carefully read the operations manual given in the goods documentation . a seller (manufacturer, contractor) shall be obliged to transfer products of the proper quality to the consumer, as well as provide information about such products . the state shall ensure the consumers the protection of their rights, provide the option to freely choose the products, obtain knowledge and qualification necessary for making own decisions . a manufacturer (contractor) shall ensure that the products are used according to their designated purpose throughout their service life provided for by the regulatory acts, including technical regulations . the list of groups of technically sophisticated household goods subject to warranty repair (maintenance) or warranty replacement shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the warranty period for seasonal goods (clothes, fur and other products) shall be counted from the beginning of a relevant season to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . a consumer shall have the right to file relevant demands to a seller (manufacturer, contractor) if defects are detected within two years . consumer shall have the right to demand from a seller or manufacturer at his/her choice, in accordance with the procedure and within the terms set by legislation . consumer demands in respect of goods the warranty period for which has not expired shall be satisfied . delivery of heavy goods and goods weighing over five kilograms to a manufacturer shall be carried out at the expense of a seller, manufacturer . consumer’s demand for replacement must be satisfied immediately, and if it is necessary to verify the quality — within fourteen days . a consumer shall have the right to file other demands provided for by clauses 1, 3, 4 and 5, part 1 of this Article, at his/her choice . consumer has the right to file a demand with a manufacturer (seller) for the free-of-charge elimination of defects in goods after the warranty period . the demand may be filed during the set service life, and if no such service life is set — within ten years if defects (material defects) are detected in goods caused by the manufacturer’s fault . a consumer shall be paid liquidated damages in the amount of one per cent of the cost of goods for each day of delay . consumer’s demands shall be considered after the consumer provides a settlement document . in respect of medicinal products and medical devices — a technical certificate . a seller must provide a consumer with a standard settlement document, or show a QR code on the display of a programme cash register . consumer's demands provided for by this Article shall not be subject to satisfaction if a seller, manufacturer prove that the defects in goods emerged as a result of violation by a consumer of the rules of using or storing the goods . consumer shall have the right to exchange the proper quality goods within fourteen days, exclusive of the date of purchase . list of goods not subject to exchange (return) shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . settlements with a consumer shall be made based on the cost of goods at the time of purchase thereof . consumer has the right to waive an agreement on works (services) and demand compensation for losses if a contractor failed to timely commence performance of the obligations under the agreement . the specified demands may be filed by a consumer within the periods provided for by the regulatory acts and terms and conditions of an agreement . late performance fees shall be paid to a contractor for each day (each hour) of delay in the amount of three per cent of the cost of the work (service) contractor must provide a consumer with a settlement document certifying the fact of work performance (service provision) or show a QR code on the display of a programme cash register . a contractor shall not be released from liability if the level of its scientific and technical knowledge provided for no opportunity to detect the special properties . a consumer shall have the right to waive the agreement on works (services) without any penalties for a contractor . this Law shall apply to consumer lending relations to the extent not contradicting the Law of Ukraine “On Consumer Lending”. in case of terminating the agreement entered into outside the trading or office premises, a consumer must notify a seller (contractor) of the place where the products may be returned . consumer shall no longer be obliged to store products after the expiration of sixty days following their receipt . if a seller (contractor) fails to refund the amount of funds paid for the products within the set periods in case of termination of the agreement, a consumer shall be paid liquidated damages . provisions of this Article shall not apply to distance agreements, which have been entered into and concern transactions with real estate, securities, financial services, vending machines, telecommunication services . the period within which a consumer has the right to terminate the agreement shall be ninety days after receiving such information, or in case of selling tangible things — after receiving the goods or after the first supply of goods . a seller may use a standard condition in the agreement on the option of replacing the goods in the absence thereof with other goods, but such a condition shall be deemed fair . consumer must be notified of the availability of such a condition in the agreement . a manufacturer (contractor, seller) must warn a consumer of the set service life (shelf life) of goods (work deliverables) or parts thereof . a consumer has the right to obtain necessary, publicly available, true and timely information about the products . the information about products shall not be deemed an advertisement . information about services related to a concert, touring, contest, festival activities must contain data on the use of sound records by musical performing artists . a manufacturer (contractor, seller) must communicate the information about the products . information must be communicated to a consumer according to the legislation on languages . price of products must include all the taxes and non-tax mandatory payments . the provisions of this part shall also apply to products, which are food products . it shall be allowed to use the term “discount” or “reduced price” only subject to the following conditions . a consumer shall have the right to terminate the agreement and demand compensation for losses . consumer has the right to file demands with a seller (manufacturer, contractor) provided for by the law . loss caused by unfair advertisement shall be subject to compensation by a guilty person . seller shall not be released from liability if no information on goods was received from the manufacturer . a consumer has the right to inspect the quality, safety, completeness, operation, weight and price of products purchased . a seller (contractor, manufacturer) must organise an expert examination of the products within three days after receiving written consent from the consumer . the consumer must compensate the seller for losses incurred for conducting the expert examination . granting a seller (contractor, manufacturer) the right to unilaterally amend the terms and conditions of the agreement at its own discretion or based on grounds not specified in the agreement . setting strict obligations of the consumer while the provision of the service is reasoned by the contractor’s own discretion . providing for the consumer right to receive relevant compensation in connection with the termination or failure to perform the agreement by him/her . giving a consumer the right not to refund the money paid for products not provided if the agreement is terminate the list of unfair conditions in agreements with consumers is not exhaustive . provisions of clauses 8, 11 and 13, part 3 of this Article shall not apply to agreements entered into for an indefinite period of time . if a provision of the agreement is recognised as unfair, such provision may be amended or invalidated . a consumer shall have the right to get compensation for losses caused to him/her by a manufacturer (contractor, seller) unfair business practices shall include: 1) performing actions qualified by the legislation as unfair competition act . business practice shall be misleading if when offering the products to a consumer the information required for making a conscious choice is not provided . acts which significantly distort the economic behaviour of only an explicitly determined (separate) group of consumers must be assessed in terms of the average representative of such a group . a business practice shall be deemed aggressive if it actually contains elements of coercion, solicitation or improper influence . the list of misleading business practices is not exhaustive . the following business practices shall be prohibited as aggressive: 1) creating an impression that a consumer cannot leave the premises of a seller (contractor) 2) making lasting and/or regular visits to the consumer’s home; 3) demanding payment for products supplied by the seller . the list of aggressive business practices is not exhaustive . consumer rights provided for by the legislation shall be protected in court . a court shall simultaneously resolve the issue of compensation for non-pecuniary damage . business entities engaged in the trade sphere and other types of services shall be liable . if a business entity keeps mandatory profit and loss accounting under the law — in the amount of fifty tax-exempt minimum incomes of citizens . selling hazardous goods (poison, pesticides, explosive and flammable substances, etc.) without proper warning labelling, and without the information about the rules and conditions of safe use thereof . penalties shall be charged to the state budget . if a business entity keeps mandatory profit and loss accounting under the law, in the amount of ten tax-exempt minimum incomes of citizens . violations of the terms and conditions of an agreement between a consumer and contractor . consumers shall have the right to form public consumer organisations (consumer associations) consumer associations shall be public organisations carrying out their activity under the Law of Ukraine “On Associations of Citizens” . the state shall support the activity of consumer associations . a consumer can file a claim with the court on recognising the actions of a seller, manufacturer (enterprise performing their functions), contractor as unlawful in respect of consumers at large and termination of such actions . the central executive authority implementing the state policy on state control over the compliance with the legislation on the protection of consumer rights . an offender must make sure that consumers become aware of the judgment within the set period . if it is detected that the products are of poor quality and/or counterfeit, a business entity under inspection shall compensate the expenses incurred . the procedure for selecting such samples shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . prohibit business entities from selling incorrectly labelled food products or unfit food products . impose administrative punishments on the guilty persons in cases provided for by the legislation . other government authorities shall carry out state protection of consumer rights within their competence determined by law . local governments shall have the right to set up structural subdivisions within their executive bodies on consumer rights . officers of executive authorities, which protect consumer rights, must strictly comply with the requirements of the legislation . complaints shall be considered in accordance with the procedure determined by the legislation. an official of the central executive authority implementing the state policy on state control over the compliance with legislation on the protection of consumer rights is protected by law . damage (losses) caused to property of an official of a central executive authority implementing the state policy on state control over the compliance with legislation on the protection of consumers’ rights or his/her family members shall be fully compensated at the expenses of the state budget . provisions of sentence 1, clause 3, part 1 of Article 26 in terms of payment for the cost of samples and conducted research (expert examinations) shall enter into force on 1 January 2007 .