The customs legislation of Ukraine shall consist of the Constitution of Ukraine, this Code and other laws of Ukraine regulating matters referred to in clause 7 of the Code. Relationships associated with the collection of customs payments shall be regulated by this Code, the Tax Code of Ukraine and other taxation laws. The customs law of Ukraine or any other customs-related regulatory act entering into force as of the day of its official publication shall be deemed valid starting with 00:00. Customs control and customs clearance of goods and commercial means of transport crossing the customs border of Ukraine shall be exclusively governed by the provisions of the customs laws of Ukraine. If the customs law of Ukraine or any other customs-related regulatory act is set to enter into force on a specific date, this Law or act shall be valid starting with 00:00 of such date. The official exchange rate of the Ukrainian currency to the foreign currency established by the National Bank of Ukraine, valid as of 00.00 of the day of submission of the customs declaration, shall apply. “Authorised economic operator” (hereinafter – AEO) shall mean an entity authorised as an authorised economic operator by the customs authorities. “Release of goods” shall mean the act whereby the customs authorities make goods available for the purposes stipulated by the customs procedure under which they are placed; 5-1) “visual inspection” means the acts of an official of the customs authority which provide for the removal of means of identification provided for the commercial means of transport. “Non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity” shall mean any prohibitions and/or restrictions that are not associated with imposing duties on goods crossing the customs border of Ukraine, laid down by the law. “official control measures’ shall mean phytosanitary control, veterinary and sanitary control. “Counterfeit goods” shall mean goods that are the subjects of infringement of intellectual property rights to a trademark in Ukraine. “Cultural valuables’ shall mean the items of material and spiritual culture that have an artistic, historical, ethnographic and scientific value. “Single Window” mechanism shall mean a mechanism of interaction between the declarants, their representatives and other persons concerned and the customs authorities. “Customs instrumentality” shall mean single-use numbered locking and sealing devices, seals, stamps, holographic marks, electronic signatures and other identification means. “customs rules” shall mean the procedure, established by the Code and other legislative acts of Ukraine, that apply to the movement of goods and commercial means of transport across the customs border of Ukraine. “international transport document’ shall mean a numbered shipping document constituting an agreement on carrying separate international express goods. “Unaccompanied baggage” shall mean the goods shipped by their holders drawing up baggage or other shipping documents and moved across the customs border of Ukraine separately from those citizens; 34-1) “customs authorities’ shall mean a central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy. “Preliminary documentary examination” shall mean a form of official control measures, which consists in verification of the relevant documents and information by customs officials at the checkpoints (control points) across the state border of Ukraine, and, if necessary, based on the results of the application of an automated risk management system – visual inspection of goods, vehicles imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. “Release of goods across the customs border of Ukraine” shall mean the act whereby the customs authority authorises the person in question to move the goods. “Foreign going vessel’ shall mean a Ukrainian or foreign vessel that conducts the international carriage of goods and/or passengers. “Goods” shall mean any moveable items, including those placed by the law under the immovable item arrangement (other than commercial means of transport), currency valuables, cultural valuable as well as electricity transmitted by power supply lines. “Ukrainian goods’ shall mean the goods that are the subjects of infringement of intellectual property rights. The state customs policy shall be an integral part of the state economic policy. The terms “qualifying shareholding” and “final beneficial owners (controllers)” in this Code shall have the meanings given in the Law of Ukraine “On Preventing and Counteracting the Legalisation (Laundering) of Illicitly Obtained Income”. State customs affairs shall comprise the established procedure and conditions of the movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine. They include customs control and customs clearance, application of tariff and non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity, collection of customs charges, maintenance of customs statistics, exchange of customs information. The customs border of Ukraine shall lie within the boundaries of the customs territory of Ukraine. The information relating to the state customs affairs obtained by the customs authorities may be used by the latter solely for the customs purposes. The personal data of the persons shall be processed without the consent of such persons. The customs officials shall be held liable, as prescribed by the law, for the disclosure of the information. Information on specific export-import operations, consent for disclosure of which is given by the declarant (except for cases when such information is classified as a state secret) in the form established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. Provision or disclosure of impersonalised summary information for the statistical purposes. “Manufacturer” shall mean an entity that directly manufactures goods intended for export. “Exporter (importer)’ shall mean entity that on the basis of foreign economic agreements (contracts) concluded by the entity directly or through an intermediary exports (imports) goods moving them across the customs border of Ukraine. AEO authorisation shall be granted free of charge and shall be valid indefinitely. The central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall maintain the Unified State Register of Authorised Economic Operators and ensure its publication on its official website. Customs authorities shall monitor the compliance of the entity with the AEO criteria. An AEO-C authorised entity shall be entitled, in the manner and under the conditions specified in this Code, to apply such special simplifications as: 1) general financial guarantee; 2) self-application of seals of special types; 3) simplified declaration procedure; 4) release at location procedure. An AEO authorised entity shall enjoy the following benefits: completion of customs formalities for goods, commercial means of transport as a matter of priority. Permits for applying special simplifications shall be granted free of charge within 15 working days from the date of registration of the relevant application. Non-resident entities shall be entitled to use the benefits defined in this Article in accordance with the international treaties of Ukraine that provide for mutual recognition of AEO authorised entities. The AEO shall be obliged to promptly inform the customs office that granted a permit for applying the relevant special simplification about all events and circumstances which may have an impact on the AEO's compliance with the conditions specified in that permit. Upon written application by AEO, the conditions. specified in the relevant permit may be modified by the customs. office. The validity of a permit suspended in accordance with part 8 of this Article shall be renewed by the Automated Customs Clearance System. Final beneficial owners (controllers), owners of qualifying shareholding, members of the board or other executive authority of the entity. No administrative penalties have been imposed on the persons from the entity specified in clause 1 of this part. Serious customs violations shall be customs violations, for which an administrative penalty is imposed in the form of a fine. An entity shall meet the criteria defined in clause 2, part 3, Article 12 of this Code in the case of observance of the following terms: 1) the accounting system of the entity: а) meets the basic principles of accounting and financial reporting in Ukraine. 2) the organisational and staff structure of the. entity, the procedures implemented in it for making and implementing management decisions, provide. management and control over transactions with goods. An entity shall meet the criteria defined in clause 4, part 3, Article 12 of this Code in the case of observance of any of the following terms: 1) the entity has experience in carrying out activities within the international delivery chain during the calendar year in which the entity's compliance with this criterion is assessed, and the previous three calendar years. 2) the employee responsible for customs issues has at least three years of practical experience in the field of customs formalities. If the entity is registered for less than three years, the assessment of compliance with the terms specified in this part shall be made. An entity shall meet the criteria defined in clause 5, part 3, Article 12 of this Code in the case of observance of the following terms. The structure and arrangement of facilities (buildings, structures, open or closed sites, etc.) used by the entity ensure protection against unlawful entry into such facilities. To grant AEO authorisation to an entity, the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall assess the compliance of the entity with the AEO criteria (hereinafter referred to as the “compliance assessment”). For the AOE authorisation, the entity shall submit to the central. executive authority and application for AEO. authorisation and a self-assessment questionnaire in the form of electronic documents affixed with a qualified electronic signature. The compliance assessment shall be conducted within 120 days from the date of the decision to conduct it. Customs officials shall have the right to: 1) check information indicated by an entity in the self-assessment questionnaire; 2) gain access to monetary, financial and accounting documents, reports, contracts, declarations, calculations, other documents and data.  customs officials shall be obliged to: 1) exercise the rights provided for in part 7 of this Article and use the information obtained during the compliance assessment only for the purpose and to the extent required. 2) comply with the confidentiality requirements in accordance with Article 11 of this Code. 3) respect the rights and legitimate interests of employees of the entity. 4) immediately inform the entity on the detection of the entities non-compliance with the AEO criteria. The officials of the entity shall have the right to: 1) require the customs officials, who will conduct the compliance assessment, to show their ID cards, as well as to provide a copy of the decision on conducting the compliance Assessment; 2) provide customs officials with comments, written statements, explanations and other documents. In case of non-provision by an entity, to the request of a customs official, a decision on refusal to grant AEO authorisation shall be made. An entity shall have the right to reconcile the non-compliance detected and notify of it the official of the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy. The official of the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy is responsible for arranging and conducting a compliance assessment. The entity has the right to submit written objections and relevant documents to substantiate them within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of receipt of the draft report. The customs officials shall be obliged to consider the objections submitted by the entity. If an entity does not comply with at least one of the AEO criteria, the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall make a decision. The decision on refusal to grant AEO authorisation shall include the grounds for such refusal with reference to the legal provisions. The customs offices, in the area of activity of which the relevant facilities are located, shall be involved in the implementation of compliance monitoring measures. Compliance monitoring measures shall be carried out by customs authorities on the basis of the results of the application of the risk management system. If the entity is registered for less than three years, during the first year after granting AEO authorisation, a higher risk level shall be applied when carrying out measures on compliance monitoring. The central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy, within a period not exceeding seven working days from the day of registration of the documents specified in clause 1 or 2, part 7 of this Article, shall make a decision on conducting a compliance re-assessment with the indication of its grounds. A copy of the decision will be sent to the entity without delay. The conditions of compliance with the AEO criteria affected by the relevant changes in the legislation of Ukraine shall be subject to compliance re-assessment. If according to the conclusion on the compliance (non-compliance) of an entity, the entity does not comply with at least one of the AOE criteria, the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall make a decision on suspending the A NEO authorisation. The period of suspension of AEO authorisation shall correspond to the period specified by the entity in the application, but may not exceed 90 days. The central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy, within a period not exceeding seven working days from the day of registration of the documents specified in part 1 of this Article, shall make a decision. The customs authorities shall assess the measures taken in accordance with the requirements of parts 6 – 11 and 13, Article 15 of this Code exclusively within the assessment of compliance of the entity with the AEO criteria. Assessment of measures taken shall be conducted within 30 days from the date of the decision to conduct it. If prior to the expiry of the period of suspension of AEO authorisation, the entity has not notified, the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall make a decision. The customs officials shall be obliged to consider the objections submitted by the entity within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of their receipt. The official of the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy is responsible for arranging and conducting the assessment of measures taken. If according to the conclusion on the compliance (non-compliance) of an entity with the AEO criteria, the entity complies with the criteria, a decision on renewing the authorisation will be made. The AEO authorisation shall be revoked by the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy. Customs formalities in respect of commercial means of transport and goods transported by them initiated with the application of special simplifications provided for in Article 13 of this Code, shall be completed under such special Simplifications. The customs authorities shall apply information technologies to facilitate the access to such information. The customs authorities shall provide consultation free of charge on the application of certain provisions of the customs legislation of Ukraine. Consultations in writing shall be provided in the form of the decisions taken by the customs authorities. The central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy shall, from time to time, summarise consultation. The summary information shall be published in the Ukrainian language. The officials of the customs authorities shall be held legally liable for the provision of incorrect information. An advance ruling shall be enforceable by any customs authorities. Advance rulings may address: 1) the classification of goods (including complete objects supplied in a disassembled form in several consignments during an extended period) 2) the determination of the country of origin of goods. The customs authority issuing an advance ruling may revoke it. An advance ruling shall be revoked in cases where: 1) it was issued on the basis of incorrect documents presented by the applicant. 2) it came in conflict with the customs legislation of Ukraine due to the amendments made to the latter. 3) It was adopted in violation of this Code. Appeals against decisions, acts or omissions by customs authorities, their official and other employees lodged to superior public officials and supreme authorities. Appeals against tax rulings of the customs authorities shall be implemented as set out in the Tax Code of Ukraine. The complaints or applications for the protection of rights, freedoms or interests of other persons may be lodged by the Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights. An official or an authority considering the appeal shall provide a person, who lodged an appeal, with a duly substantiated written reply within the legally established term. Appeals and other petitions of citizens shall be considered by the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy, customs offices and their officials in accordance with the powers specified in this Code. The central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall have the right to annul or alter the unlawful decisions taken by its subordinate customs authorities or their officials. Appeals against decisions, acts or omissions by customs authorities and their officials may be appealed directly in court as prescribed by the law. Customs controls may be carried out by using all the information, telecommunication and information telecommunication systems and their supporting tools developed, produced or purchased by the customs authorities. Creation and functioning of the Unified Automated Information System of Customs Authorities, the automated system of customs clearance and the single state information web portal “Single Window for International Trade” shall be ensured. Appeals, petitions, requests, appeals, may be submitted to customs authorities electronically. Decisions and other documents stipulated by this Code may be issued in the form of electronic documents under the Law of Ukraine “On Electronic Documents and Electronic Documents Circulation” The compliance of information, telecommunication and information telecommunication systems with national standards shall be confirmed. The procedure for using the information resources operated by the customs authorities shall be established by the Code and other legislative acts of Ukraine. For the implementation of the interaction referred to in part 1 of this Article, a Single State Information Web Portal “Single Window for International Trade” shall be used. The central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall be the administrator and holder of the Single State information Web Portal. The documents and data, to be provided to the customs authorities as provided for by this Code and other laws of Ukraine by other state authorities, institutions and organisations, shall be provided one-off in the form of an electronic document certified by an electronic digital signature. Data provided via the Single State Information Web Portal “Single Window for International Trade” shall be harmonised by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. To harmonise the data provided via the Single State Information Web Portal “Single Window for International Trade,” the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy shall approve a technical standard document – a set of harmonised data for provision via the portal. 2) transfer of relevant authorisation documents and/or data on the introduction (exclusion) of goods into (from) the relevant register by state authorities, institutions and organisations. 3) transfer by authorised state authorities to the customs authorities of information about prohibitions on the movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine in the relevant direction set by them in accordance with the laws or international treaties of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. 7) regular informing of the relevant state authorities, institutions and organisations authorised to exercise authorisation or control functions in respect of movement of goods, commercial means of transport across the customs border of Ukraine. 8) multiple use of one-time introduced information; 9) the possibility for coordination by the customs bodies of official control measures. In the event of failure of the Single State Information Web Portal “Single Window for International Trade”, the time limits set forth in this Code, which are related to its operation, shall be suspended until its operability is restored. Information on failure and restoration of itsOperability shall be posted without delay on the official website of the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy. The country of origin shall be determined to impose taxes on goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine, apply non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity to them. The supervision over protection of electronic information contained in the information systems of the customs authorities will be carried out by the central executive authority in charge of implementing state customs policy. Confidential information or information provided confidentially to determine the country of origin shall not be disclosed without the special permission of the person or government. Goods completely produced in the country shall be deemed to be minerals extracted from the subsoil of that country, in its territorial waters or at its seabed. Criterion for sufficient processing of ground (road) vehicles classified under headings 8702, 8703, 8704 under UKT ZED shall be the mandatory performance of the following production and technological operations. Operations, established by part 6 of Article 40 of this Code, shall not be recognised as meeting the criterion for sufficientprocessing in free customs zones in the territory of Ukraine. The UKT ZED rules state that goods are deemed to have been sufficiently processed if, as a result of the processing, the classification code of the goods is changed at any of the first four digits. If the ad valorem share rule applies, the value of. the goods resulting from processing in that country shall be determined based on the ex-works. price of the producer. The country of origin of packaging in which the goods are imported into the customs territory of Ukraine shall be deemed to be the same as that of the goods themselves. Documents confirming the country oforigin of goods shall include a certificate of origin, a certified declaration oforigin, a declaration of origin. A declaration of origin is a written statement on the country of origin of goods made in connection with the export of the goods by the manufacturer, seller, exporter (supplier) or another competent person on a commercial invoice or any other document concerning the goods. A certificate of the regional name is a document that confirms that the goods meet the definition specific to the relevant region of the country and is issued by the competent authority. Documents confirming the country of origin of the goods shall not be required if: 1) goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine are not subject to written declaration under this Code. 2) for goods imported into Ukraine are subject to quantitative restrictions (quotas) or measures taken by the state regulatory bodies for foreign economic activity within the powers established by the laws of Ukraine. The goods shall be deemed to have originated from the relevant country from the moment of receipt by the customs authorities. The authorities that issued the certificate of origin of the goods from Ukraine shall keep a copy thereof and other documents certifying the origin of such goods for at least 1095 days from the day of its issuance. The customs authority shall refuse to release the goods if they originate from the country whose goods are prohibited to move across the customs border. The customs value of goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine is based on the price actually paid or payable for such goods. The most-favoured-nation regime shall be applied (restored) to the goods provided that the customs authority receives a duly executed relevant document of their origin. Only the value of the media shall be taken into account, provided that the cost of the software and/or the costof the media has been separated from the price actually paid or payable for the goods being valued. Interest accrued on financial agreements (for example, financial leasing agreements) concluded by the buyer will not be considered as part of the customs value. Declarant or its authorised representative agrees with the decision of the customs authority to adjust the customs value of goods – provided that customs payments are made based on the declared customs value. The customs authority that performs customs clearance of such goods, shall be provided with customs value declaration, in accordance with the established procedure. Declaration of the customs value of goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine in regimes other than import customs regime shall be made by indicating in the customs declaration information on the numerical value of their customs value and supporting documents. Declarant shall submit to the customs authority documents confirming declared customs value. The declarant or its authorised representative at the written request of the customs authority must provide within 10 calendar days (if any) the following additional documents. If the documents referred to in part 2 of this Article contain discrepancies that affect the customs value accuracy, signs of forgery or do not contain all the information confirming the numerical values, the documents must be submitted. Validity check of the customs value of goods shall be performed by the customs authority during customs control and customs clearance by verifying the numerical value of the declared customs value. It is prohibited to require from the declarant or its authorised representative any other documents other than those specified in this Article.  customs payments are made based on the declared customs value and guarantees are extended pursuant to Section X of this Code. The customs authority may refuse customs clearance of goods at the value declared by the declarant or its authorised representative only if there are reasonable grounds to believe that incomplete and/or inaccurate information has been declared. Decision on adjusting the declared customs value of goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine with the application of import customs regime to be taken in writing. If customs authority cannot substantiate that incomplete and/or unreliable information on the customsvalue of goods was declared, including incorrectly determined customs value, the customs value shall be deemed automatically accepted. The form of the decision to adjust the customs value of goods shall be established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. During customs clearance, the declarant or its authorised representative may adjust the declared customs value within the period established by part 2 of Article 263 of this Code. Information concerning the customs value of goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine may not be disclosed or transmitted to third parties, including other public authorities, without the special permission of the person or body providing such information. Publication by the customs authority of depersonalised information on specific export and import transactions entered by the declarants in the customs declaration. The base method used to determine the custom value of goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine according to import customs regime is the fist method – based on the agreement (contract) price. Each subsequent method shall be used only if the customs value of the goods cannot be determined by applying the previous method in accordance with the provisions of this Code. Customs value of goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine in accordance with import customs regime. Price actually paid or payable is the total amount of all payments made or payable by the buyer of the goods being valued to the seller. Dividends or other payments not related to the goods are not part of the customs value. In determining the customs value, the following costs shall be added to the price actually paid or payable for the goods being valued. These costs include commissions and brokerage fees, except for purchase commissions, which are the buyer's fee to its agent for the provision of services related to the representation of its interests abroad. The procedure for including royalty and license fees in the price calculation shall be determined. The price actually paid or payable shall not include any costs other than those provided for in this Article. The fact that the seller and the buyer are related persons cannot in itself be grounds for considering the value of the transaction as unacceptable. For the purposes of this Code, parties shall be deemed to be related to each other in the cases specified in Article 15 of the Agreement. When selling goods between related parties, the value of the transaction is used as a basis for determining the customs value. The value of transactions specified in clauses 1–3 of part 18of this Article shall be taken into account. The information used by the declarant or its authorised representative must be objective, measurable and documented. In the cases provided for in part 22 of this Article, the validity check of the Customs value shall be carried out only after customs clearance has been completed. Identical goods shall mean the same goods in all respects as the goods being valued. Minor external differences may not be grounds for refusing to treat goods as identical if in general, such goods meet the requirements of part 2 of this Article. The contract price for identical goods shall be used as the basis for determining the customs value. The contract price for similar goods shall be used as the basis for determining the customs value of the goods. If the expenditures and costs specified in clauses 5–7, part 10 of Article 58 of this Code are included in the transaction value, an adjustment shall be made to take into account significant differences. The information used in making the adjustment must be documented. To determine the customs value of goods using this method the basis shall be the unit price at which the goods being valued or identical or similar imported goods are sold on the territory of Ukraine in the largest total quantities. The amount of profit and general expenses, which include direct and indirect costs associated with the sale of these goods, shall be taken as a whole. Customs value of such goods shall be determined on the basis of the unit price at which the goods being valued or identical or similar goods are sold in Ukraine. If there are no cases of sale of the goods in the same condition in which they were on the day of importation into Ukraine, at the request of the declarant or its authorised representative, the customs value will be determined. The possibility of applying the provisions of part 4 of this Article shall be. determined on a case-by-case basis. The customs value of the goods being valued shall be determined using methods that do not contradict the laws of Ukraine. The information provided by the manufacturer of goods for the purposes of customs valuation in accordance with the provisions of this Article may be verified in the country of manufacture by the authorised bodies of Ukraine with the consent of the manufacturer. Customs value of goods imported into Ukraine in accordance with customs regimes other than the import regime shall be the price of the goods indicated in the invoice or proforma invoice. In the event of a change in the customs regime, the customs value determined when the goods were first placed under the customs regimes shall be replaced by the value determined under the following customs regime. Customs Valuation Procedure for the Goods That Are Exported Ooutside the Customs Territory of Ukraine. UKT ZED classifies the goods by sections, groups, commodity items, commodity subheadings, the names and digital codes of which are unified with the Harmonised Commodity Description and Coding System. The seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth digits of the numeric code are used for a more detailed product classification. The structure of the ten-digit digital code designation of goods in UKT Z ED includes group code, product position, product subheading and product category. Customs authorities have the right to classify goods independently if they find contradictions in the interpretation of the provisions UKT ZED. Penalties and other sanctions for non-payment of customs duties and for other violations detected in connection with the incorrect classification of goods shall be applied by the customs authorities. The goods shall be divided into Ukrainian and foreign by the customs status. All the goods in the customs territory of Ukraine (except for the territories of free customs zones) shall be deemed to have the status of Ukrainian goods. The issues related to the completion of necessary customs formalities and customs control of goods placed under the customs regime shall be governed by this Code. Foreign goods are damaged or lost as a result of an accident or force majeure event or illegal acts by third parties. They may be declared to the customs authority in the customs regime of import in the damaged state or in actual quantity complying with legally established tariff and non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity. Goods are returned to the person who exported them if they were placed under the customs regime of export (final leave) or due to the non-performance (improper performance) of the foreign trade contract under which such goods were placed. Goods are returned if they are imported into that territory prior to the expiration of such customs regime being in the same state as when exported. The customs regime of re-import shall be applied where the customs authority can identify goods declared under such customs regime as being previously exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine. The means of identification may be applied to goods exported with the intention of further re- import at the time of their release. Re-import of goods placed under the customs. regime of export under clause 3, part 2 of Article 78 of this Code may be carried out by the exporter of such goods or his legal successor. Customs regime of export means a customs regime whereby Ukrainian goods are released for free circulation outside the customs territory of Ukraine with no obligations of their reimport. Export duties paid on export of such goods shall be repaid to the persons that paid them or to their legal successors, in accordance with the procedure provided for in this Code. Goods placed under the customs regime of export lose the status of Ukrainian goods at the time of their actual export outside the customs territory of Ukraine. Re-export means a customs regime whereby goods are exported with relief from export duties and without their being subject to non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity. The customs regime of re-export applies to goods previously imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. The means of identification may be applied to goods imported with the intention of further re- export at the time of their importation. The identification means need not necessary be apply to containers, pallets or other similar goods that do not have individual identification features. Re-export of goods placed in the customs regime of import may be carried out by the importer of such goods or their legal successor. Re-exported goods may be exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine in one or several consignments. Documents that confirm previous import of these goods into the customs Territory of Ukraine shall be used instead of a customs declaration. The customs transit regime of transit shall allow the movement of goods in external or internal transit, or cabotage. It applies to goods moved: 1) in external transit from the one point of import (checkpoint) into the customs territory of Ukraine to another point of export (check point) outside the customs Territory of Ukraine. 2) in internal transit: a) from the point of imported goods to the customs authority located on the Customs Territory. 3) from man-made island, installation or structure established in the exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine, to which the exclusive jurisdiction of Ukraine extends. The identification means provided for in parts 2 and parts 3of Article 326 of this Code may be applied to ensure the identification of goods and commercial means of transport placed under the customs transit regime. An Air Waybill or Bill of Lading may be used instead of a customs declaration in the case of transit within one checkpoint or for declaring non-excisable goods. A carnet or CPD carnet may be used for declaring goods, commercial means of transport under the customs transit regime irrespective of the mode of transport. SMGS consignment note or TIR carnet shall be used instead of a customs declaration for declaring non-excisable goods. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the export of goods placed under the customs regimes of export, re-export, temporary import, and outward processing outside the customs territory of Ukraine. The customs transit regime shall allow to replace a motor road vehicle provided that the customs authority is notified of the reasons for such replacement. Permission for loading and/or unloading of goods shall be issued by the customs authorities without delay upon receipt of the relevant request. If a vessel carrying out cabotage transportation of goods be unable to reach one of the places of customs control in the customs territory of Ukraine, due to an accident, a natural disaster or other force majeure event, the unloading shall be allowed at places where there are no customs authorities. The customs transit regime shall be discharged with the export of goods, commercial means of transport placed under that customs regime outside the customs territory of Ukraine. In this case, prior to loading the goods, only a list of those goods shall be presented to the customs authority, and for unloading only a lists of goods to be unloaded shall be provided. The customs authority that completed the customs formalities shall notify the customs authorities of its appointment. Ukrainian goods moved under the customs regime of transit in accordance with the provisions of subclauses “c” and “d” of clause 2, part 2 of Article 91 of this Code shall be released from customs control upon the actual delivery of such goods. The customs transit regime shall also be discharged when goods are seized, the total loss due to an accident or force majeure event. In the customs regime of temporary import with conditional total relief from customs duties may be placed only goods, commercial means of transport referred to in Article 189 of this Code and Annexes B.1-B.9, C, D to the Convention on Temporary Admission ( Istanbul, 1990) Air vessels imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by Ukrainian airlines under the operating lease contract. The amount of customs duties shall be paid when goods are placed under the customs regime of temporary import and shall be calculated for the period of validity of this customs regime established by the customs authority. In case of temporary. import of goods with conditional partial relief from customs duties, for each full or incomplete calendar month of. the declared period of stay in the customs territory of Ukraine, 3 percent of the amount of. customs duties which would have been payable in case of release of those goods for free circulation at customs. territory. The period of temporary import of goods shall be established by the customs authority in each case, but shall not exceed three years from the date of placing the goods under the customs regime of temporary Import. If goods placed under customs regime cannot be exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine as a result of seizure (except where seizure due to claims of private persons) or withdrawn in proceeding for violation of customs rules, the period ofporary import shall be suspended. The compliance with the requirements of the customs regime of temporary import shall be ensured by: 1) applying an international customs document that contains a valid international guarantee of payment customs duties on the import of goods established by law. 2) providing a financial guarantee as prescribed by Section X of this Code, when the temporary import regime is discharged. 3. Not required in respect of equipment for the production of radio or television programmes. The customs regime of temporary import shall be discharged when goods, commercial means of transport placed under this customs regime are re-exported, or placed under another customs regime. If prohibitions or restrictions on imports that were in force at the time of temporary importing of goods are cancelled, it shall be allowed to discharge the customs regime by releasing goods for free circulation in the customs territory of Ukraine. The duration of temporary export of goods, commercial means of transport shall be established by the customs authority in each case, but shall not exceed three years. The identification means need not be applied to containers, pallets and other similar goods that do not have individual identification features. A person in charge of compliance with the customs regime shall: 1) present the documents related to goods under the temporary regime of export, that confirm the purpose of their temporary export; 2) submit an obligation to re-import of goods that are temporarily exported. Ukrainian goods placed under the customs regime of temporary export shall retain the status of Ukrainian goods. Customs regime of customs warehouse means a customs regime whereby foreign or Ukrainian goods are stored under customs control with conditional total relief from customs duties and without their being subject to non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity. Customs authorities may not require to present documents other than those provided for in parts 2 and 3 of this Article. In order to place goods under the customs regime of the customs warehouse a customs declaration, shipping document and invoice or other document specifying the value of the goods shall be submitted to the customs authority. An electronic message shall be sent to the customs authority within four hours from the moment of actual placement of the goods in the customs warehouse. The forms of electronic notice shall be established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy, and based on the common rules of warehouse accounting provided for in this Article. The period of storage of goods under the customs regime of the customs warehouse shall not exceed 1,095 days from the date of placement. The final consignee shall have the right to re-place such goods in the customs system. If foreign goods were spoiled or damaged as a result of accident or force majeure event, it shall be allowed to declare them for free circulation. Ukrainian goods placed under the customs regime of the customs warehouse shall lose the status of Ukrainian goods from the moment of reimbursement of the amounts of value added tax in accordance with the provisions of the Tax Code of Ukraine. Operations carried out with goods stored in the Customs Warehouse shall not change the characteristics according to the Ukrainian Classification of Goods of Foreign Economic Activity. The customs regime of the customs warehouse shall end when goods are placed under this customs regime or another customs regime allowed by this Code. If prohibitions or restrictions established by law on import or export of relevant goods are cancelled, it shall be allowed to complete the customs regime. The information about the owner of such goods shall be provided to the customs authority. Free customs zone means foreign goods are imported into the territory of a free customs zone and exported from that territory outside the customs territory of Ukraine with relief from customs duties. Operations with goods placed under the customs regime of afree customs zone shall be limited to simple warehouse operations necessary to ensure their preservation. Placement of goods in the customs regime of a free customs zone as well as change of this customs regime shall be carried out by the customs authority in which operational area such zone is located. Transport or commercial documents containing the description of such goods and accompanying them in import shall be used for placing foreign goods in free customs zones of commercial type. Ukrainian goods that are not used in production and other economic operations and are not consumed, shall be admitted into such territories (released) without changing their customs status and placement in the customs regimes. The release for free circulation of products of processing of goods placed under the customs regime of a free customs zone shall be carried out with payment of customs duties and interest. Waste (residues) specified in part one of this Article may be declared under the same classification code in accordance with the UKT ZED. If non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity provided by law apply to certain goods that being parts of the specified consignment, such method of declaration shall not release the declarant from compliance with those measures. The obligation to pay customs duties in accordance with Section X of this Code shall not be required. Placing Ukrainian goods in the customs regime of duty-free trade for tax purposes shall be deemed to be export of these goods. Supply of goods by the duty- free shops to air, water or railway commercial means of transport operating international flights for sale to passengers. Supply of goods by the duty-free shop onboard an air (water or rail) commercial means of transport operating an international flight shall be carried out under the control of customs officials. The official of the customs authority carrying out customs control and customs clearance of these goods, shall be provided with the transport documents for these goods. The report form shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. An official of the customs authority may check the contents of the container at any stage of delivery of goods by the duty-free shop to the air commercial means of transport. Unsold goods shall be returned from the that vehicle in containers under the control of customs officials to the duty-free shop that supplied them to the specified vehicle. Upon completion of international flight the air means of transport arrive at the checkpoint across the state border of Ukraine for air traffic other than that where the Duty Free Shop is located. Ukrainian goods placed under the customs regime of duty-free trade shall retain the status of foreign goods. Ukrainian goods not intended for sale in a duty- free shop and required for its operation shall be admitted into the premises of such shop (released from it) without changing their customs status and placement under customs regimes. The maximum volumes of goods in respect of which the customs regime of duty-free trade may be completed by the customs authority are set by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. The processing of foreign goods shall not allow the use of Ukrainian goods (except fuel and energy), that are subject to export duty in accordance with the law. Placement of goods in the customs processing regime on the customs territory of Ukraine shall be allowed with the written permission of the customs authority. Along with the request, the owner of the goods or the person authorised by him/her shall submit the following documents: foreign trade contracts or substituent documents. Permission for processing of goods on the customs territory of Ukraine shall include a list of processing operations and the method of their implementation. Decision to refuse to issue a permission is made if: 1) the information specified in the documents submitted by the applicant is not sufficient to determine the request amount of processed products output that result from processing. Permission for the processing of goods in the customs territory of Ukraine may be modified or revoked by the customs authority, if it is issued on the basis of false data, which were essential for the decision making. The number of goods processing operations under the customs processing regime of Ukraine shall be unlimited. Permits to perform certain processing operations or full processing cycle shall be issued simultaneously with the permission for goods processing in the customs territory of Ukraine. The period of goods processing may be extended by the specified authority for the reasons supported by the documents. Repair of goods, including modernisation, restoration, adjustment and calibration may be carried out by other enterprises. The processing period in the customs territory of Ukraine is suspended for the time of such arrest (seizure, accident, force majeure event) The customs authorities shall exercise control over the mandatory volume of output of processed products formed as a result of goods processing in the Customs Territory of Ukraine. The central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy, may establish required output standards. The declarant shall be entitled to declare Ukrainian goods (except for fuel and energy), which are fully used during the processing of foreign goods. Processed products may be re-exported in one or more consignments. The processed products owned by a non-resident shall be sold in the customs territory of Ukraine through its representative office registered in Ukraine. Residues or waste derived from the processing of foreign goods and have economic value and/or may be disposed of. Products may be placed under other customs regimes if the declarant or the person authorised by him/her so decides. Waste other than those specified in part 1 of this Article shall be subject to removal in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine before the expiration of the goods processing term. The customs processing regime in the customs territory shall be completed by re-export of processed products or placing them under the other customs regime, and in the cases provided for in part 2 of this Article. In case of non-fulfilment by the enterprise of the requirements of part 1 of this Code, the obligations secured by the financial guarantee (if such guarantee has been provided in accordance with part 3 of Article 148 of this code) shall be released. The operations specified in part 2 of Article 150 of this Code may be carried out during goods processing outside the customs territory of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall have the right to determine: 1) processed products, processing residues, as well as goods, processed products or processing residues is subject to mandatory return. Permission for processing of goods outside the customs territory of Ukraine shall be issued to the enterprise by the customs authority free of charge within five working days from the date of registration of the relevant application. Occurrence or detection of circumstances that are not reflected in the documents of the enterprise, but affect the name and volume of processed products, shall be the ground for refusal of the customs clearance. The decision to refuse to issue a permission for processing of goods outside the customs territory of Ukraine shall be made if: 1) the information specified in the documents submitted by the applicant is not sufficient to determine the request amount of processed products output that result from processing. 2) the customs authority found that the information contained in the papers submitted is inconsistent, or incorrect; 3) the enterprise fails to comply with the legislation of Ukraine prohibitions or restrictions on the processing. The period of goods processing outside the customs territory of Ukraine shall be established by the customs authority in each case. This specified period shall be calculated from the date of completion of customs clearance of foreign goods for processing. The total processing period may not exceed 365 days, except as provided in parts 2 and 3 of this Article. The customs authorities may establish mandatory standarts for processed products, when processing operations outside the customs territory of Ukraine are carried out under standard (identical) technical conditions. Foreign goods which were used in processing the exported goods shall not be subject to declaration. Processed products (other than those in part 2 of this Article) shall besubject to partial relief from customs duties. Residues and wastes that are derived from processing operations of the Ukrainian goods outside the customs territory of Ukraine and remain outside that territory shall not be subject to customs control and customs clearance. The expression “equivalent goods” means foreign goods that are identical by descriptive, quantitative and technical characteristics to Ukrainian goods exported for processing. In case of non-fulfilment by the enterprise of the requirements of part 1 of this Article, the obligations covered by the guarantee (if such a guarantee was provided) shall be enforceable. The goods may be abolished or destroyed with the written permission of the customs authority at the request of the owner of the goods. The goods to be abolished or destroyed can be placed under the customs regime of refusal in favor of the state. If the owner of the goods accepts the customs authority's proposal, those goods shall be placed in the state's customs regime. The goods will be abolished at the expense of their owner or the person authorised by him/her. Waste derived from abolition or destruction of goods with no economic value, which are not disposable, shall be subject to removal in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine. The customs authority shall have the right to inspect at any time the goods placed under the abolition and destruction customs regime (until their actual destruction) Customs regime of refusal in favor of the state means a customs regime where the owner renounces foreign goods. Foreign goods shall be placed under the customs regime with relief from customs duties and without their being subject to non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity. Customs authorities shall not reimburse any property claims of persons who have the authority in respect of goods which the declarant refused. The goods shall be moved across the customs border of Ukraine by air, water, road, rail transport, pipelines and power supply lines, as well as by intermodal transport. The “intermodal (combined) transport” shall mean the international carriage of goods by at least two different means of transport. Commercial means of transport used for transporting goods and/or passengers across the customs border of Ukraine may temporarily enter the customs territory of Ukraine. The list of premises referred to in part 2 of this Article and requirements to them shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. Importation of goods in error may not be considered a violation of customs rules. Goods brought into the customs territory of Ukraine in error shall be exported outside it on the basis of transport documents. Spare parts and equipment intended for use in the repair or maintenance of commercial means of transport may be imported (exported) without charging customs duties. The carriers shall verify the accuracy of the information on the number of cargo items, their marking, numbers, external condition of goods and their packing while accepting the goods for carriage. If such verification is impossible, a corresponding entry shall be made in the CMR. For violation of the procedure for goods in transit, the carrier shall bear administrative liability under this Code. If goods under customs control and moved in transit are lost or released without authorisation of the customs authority, the carrier shall pay import duties imposed by the law. Violation of the goods delivery period specified in this Code provided that all other requirements are met, shall not give rise to an obligation to pay customs duties.  Entry summary declaration shall not be submitted when importing: 1) goods moved by sea, river and air means of transport, which during their stay in the customs territory of Ukraine do not make stops at ports or airports located in this territory. In cases defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the entry summary declaration may be submitted to the customs authority other than those specified in paragraph 1. The list of information to be entered in the entry summary declaration depending on the way and method of movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine, the presence of AEO authorisation shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy, taking into account the requirements of the customs legislation of the EU. The absence of the entry summary declaration at the Ukrainian border checkpoint at the moment of performing the customs formalities shall be considered grounds for a refusal to release the goods. The passage of goods and commercial means of transport transporting them across the customs border of Ukraine shall be performed after the submission of the declaration to the customs authority. Certain types of goods may be moved across the customs border of Ukraine at the specially designated checkpoints. Lists of such goods and checkpoints shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall define the codes of goods according to UKT ZED. In the cases provided for by the law, certain goods shall be subject to restrictions on their movement across the customs border of Ukraine. Paper copies of such documents provided by the declarant or a person authorised by him/her may be used for customs formalities. The central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall define the codes of goods according to UKT ZED. The maximum period of stay of goods, commercial means of transport at the checkpoints of the state border of Ukraine shall not exceed 30 days in general and five days for road transport after arrival at the checkpoint for customs procedures. If under the terms of carriage, customs clearance of goods in full is carried out not at the customs border checkpoint, and the carriage is performed with changing a vehicle, transport, commercial and other accompanying documents containing information about the goods that is sufficient to identify them will be presented to the customs authority. The goods and vehicles shall be presented, and the accompanying documents transferred to the customs authority at the earliest opportunity. Changing the parking lot (arrival) of the vehicle, unloading, reloading, unpacking, packing or repacking of goods, change, removal or damage to the identification means shall be allowed only with the authorisation of the customs authorities. The only document required for placing goods in a temporary storage warehouse under customs control shall be a unified document in the form prescribed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. The total period of temporary storage of goods under Customs Control shall be 90 calendar days. Perishable goods or goods with limited storage life may be in temporary storage under customs control while their properties are preserved. The period of temporary storage of the goods specified in part 1 of this Article may be extended (but not more than for 30 days) by the customs authority, under whose authorisation the goods have been placed in the warehouse. The goods that have become unfit, destroyed or damaged due to an accident or force majeure event during the period of temporary storage under customs control, that is supported by relevant documents, shall be subject to customs clearance. Article 206. The temporary storage of goods in warehouses located outside of checkpoints across the state border of Ukraine. The goods placed in temporary storage warehouses located outside the checkpoints across the state border of Ukraine at the airports, sea and/or river ports shall be subject to simple warehousing operations. The release of the goods from the temporary storage warehouse outside the customs territory of Ukraine shall be based on the transport documents and authorisations issued. The customs authorities shall carry out customs control on sea and river transport. If a foreign-going vessel is unable to reach one of the customs control points in the customs territory of Ukraine due to an accident, natural disaster or other force majeure circumstances, the unloading of the goods shall be allowed at places where there are no customs authorities. Customs clearance of fish products taken by the Ukrainian vessels from the Azov and Black Sea basin shall be performed without drawing up a customs declaration. The port administration shall not allow the foreign-going vessel master to leave the port area without the mark made by the customs authority on the appropriate ship's document. Goods transported by transit air passengers (except for goods prohibited for transit) shall not be subject to customs duties. Unloading, loading, handling and other operations required for customs control and customs clearance of goods carried by railway companies shall be carried out at the expense of holders of the goods. Commercial means of transport employed to move goods across the customs border of Ukraine shall not require a separate declaration if during such movement goods carried by those vehicles are declared. Information about commercial means of Transport carrying goods shall be filled in the customs declaration. The customs authorities shall control the compliance of road carriers with the legislation of Ukraine on international road transport in accordance with the Law of Ukraine ‘On Motor Vehicle Transport’ Stores required for operation and maintenance of means of transport that arrive at the customs territory of Ukraine shall be relieved from customs duties. Records on the movement of goods in the dining cars, cafe-bars, etc. may be used instead of customs declarations for stores. No separate declaration or a substituent document for stores that remain on board those Means of Transport shall be presented. Stores imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by water, air and rail transport may be released for free circulation. Stores export shall be declared under cover of accompanying documents with customs instrumentality attached. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco products on board means of transport engaged in international traffic may be imported and exported for consumption by persons who are on board. Customs control of goods transported across the customs border of Ukraine by pipelines and power supply lines, including for transit through the territory of Ukraine, shall be exercised in the customs control areas. The period for payment of customs duties shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. Customs authorities shall not reimburse any property claims of persons having authority regarding the respective natural gas volumes. Customs clearance of natural gas transported by pipeline transport across the customs border of Ukraine under foreign economic agreements (contracts) shall be carried out on the basis of data of naturalGas acceptance and delivery certificates between the parties. The volumes of balancing, which are accounted for in accordance with the OBA, shall be subject to customs clearance in the relevant customs regime. Importation of international express mail by express carrier into the customs territory of Ukraine or their exportation outside this territory through the checkpoints located at international airports. Handling shall be carried out in the presence of the customs official and other airport and carrier officers in charge. At the Ukrainian border checkpoint, the goods moved (sent) by international mail and express mail shall not be subject to non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity. International mail (except for that in transit across the territory of Ukraine) and express mail shall cross the customs border of Ukraine upon completion of customs control and customs clearance. Postal operators and express carriers shall, at the request of the customs authority, present mail to customs examination. Methods of such presentation shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. Customs control and customs clearance of goods moved (sent) across the customs border of Ukraine by international express mail shall be carried out at the central (regional) sorting stations or the place of location (residence) of the recipient (sender) Article 234. Charging of customs duties on goods moved by international mail and express mail. It shall be forbidden to move (send) by international mail the goods prohibited to be sent in accordance with the acts of the Universal Postal Union, as well as goods sent in violation of postal services regulatory acts. Declaration of goods moved (sent) across the customs border of Ukraine by internationalmail and express mail shall be declared. The following shall be transferred to the customs authority for storage: goods not released while entering the customs territory of Ukraine due to the legal prohibitions or restrictions on their importation to or transit through Ukraine. If the goods subject to mandatory transfer for storage to the Customs Authority have lost their consumer properties, they shall be destroyed without transfer to the warehouse. Currency valuables transferred to the customs authority for storage shall be deposited with the authorised banks of Ukraine. Precious metals, precious stones and semi-precious stones shall be stored in accordance with the procedure established by the legislation. The customs warehouse schedule shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state fiscal policy. The customs authorities shall be legally liable for any loss or damage to goods, commercial means of transport stored by them. The amount to be reimbursed shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy, and shall be calculated in the manner prescribed for determining the cost of paid services. Currency of Ukraine and foreign currency deposited with the authorised banks may be stored there for 1,095 days. The holders of the goods stored in the warehouses of the customs authorities under customs control may, with the authorisation of and under control of those authorities, carry out the operations with those goods. Goods stored in the warehouses of the customs authorities under customs control may be released to their holder or the person authorised by him/her only after the customs clearance of the goods, reimbursement of their storage costs and payment of applicable customs duties. Goods, commercial means of transport seized by the court, shall be sold and donated. Goods detected (found) in the course of customs control in the customs control areas and/or in means of transport moving across the customs border of Ukraine shall be sold. Information on detected goods shall, within three days, be placed for public review at the locations of the customs authorities for the entire period of storage of such goods. Proceeds from the sale of goods referred to in clauses 2–5 of part 1, clauses 1–5, 7, part 5 of Article 238 and part 4, Article 240 of this Code shall be stored in the account of the customs authority. If goods that constitute objects of violation of customs rules are perishable or have limited shelf life and are sold before a court decision is issued, all the proceeds from thesale shall be withdrawn to ensure the recovery of the value of those goods. The holder of the goods specified in part 1 of this Article, or the person authorised by him/her may obtain from the customs authority account the balance of proceeds from their sale. Proceeds not claimed within this period shall be transferred to the state budget. Interest on proceeds from the sale of goods shall not be accrued. Customs clearance is carried out in respective customs unit locations during working hours set for these units. In cases identified by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy, the Automatic Customs Clearance System automatically performs customs procedures on a 24-hour basis. Some regions of Ukraine can identify customs authorities to perform customs clearance.  customs clearance of excisable goods, natural gas, goods subject to state hallmarking under existing law, and medications can be performed at designated locations. Customs clearance starts when a declarant or authorised person submits to the customs authority a customs declaration or any other document replacing the customs declaration under the law. An AEO-C certified organisation must have the following to be entitled to special simplified “released at location procedure’ The procedure can be only used for goods made available at the respective facility of the organisation. To use the released at location. procedure, each facility of a certified organisation (building, structure, open. or closed site, etc.) must obtain individual clearance. The AEO-C certified organisation can be used to place goods for temporary storage and/or under customs warehouse regime. During the storage time at the facility, customs duties are to be covered by the financial guarantee of the organisation. The facility is the place of delivery and must ensure integrity of customs restrictions (if any) The AEO-C certified organisation that uses released at location procedure must: 1) avoid any actions with commercial vehicles and their consignment after submitting customs declaration until transferring under respective customs regime is received. 2) provide at customs request access to commercial vehicle, declared goods and documents used for declaration of the goods. 3) inform customs about any events and circumstances which can impact the compliance with special simplified “released at location Procedure” requirements. Customs clearance of goods entering Ukraine as a part of assistance consignments has the priority. Goods exported from Ukraine are exempt from customs duties. Businesses that deliver commodities to Ukraine shall make in presence of customs officer certificates of non-conformity of these commodities to customs clearance documents. Documents required for customs clearance of goods entering Ukraine in export-import operations shall be submitted to customs authority in Ukrainian. Inconsistency of goods with actual weights specified in support documents related to transportation, storage, specific characteristics of some goods can be present within natural loss and loss relief for such commodities under the existing law of Ukraine. Customs clearance is deemed completed upon completion of all customs procedures under this Code. In case goods are declared under preliminary or periodical customs declarations custom clearance under these declarations shall be completed within 4 hours of their submission. The time specified in part 1 of this Article cannot be exceeded due to special operations conducted by enforcement authorities. Customs clearance of goods, commercial vehicles is based on customs declaration which is completed by declarant on basis of customs procedures set out by this Code. Customs declaration provisions and customs declaration forms shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the completion procedure of such declarations and other documents used in customs clearance. Customs authorities cannot require customs declaration data other than data specified in this Article. List of goods subject to optional written declaring is established by this Code and other laws of Ukraine. Customs authorities and officials can receive free qualified digital signature service provided by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. Preliminary customs declaration must include sufficient information to ensure arrival at customs authority at destination. Declarant or authorised person shall submit preliminary customs declaration to customs authority in respective responsibility area. Decision on release of goods, commercial vehicles in accordance with the customs regime declared in the preliminary declaration that provides all required information is made by the customs authority. Customs authority accepts preliminary customs declaration if the verification has established that the declaration includes required product information. If original documents are not available at the submission of Preliminary customs declaration copies of these documents can be submitted. Goods can be imported to Ukraine under preliminary Customs declaration within 30 days of the date customs authority accepted it. Completion of provisional customs declaration by the customs authority releases goods for declared customs regime. If goods, commercial vehicles are imported to Ukraine including transit, periodical customs declaration shall be used instead of preliminary customs declaration. If the declarant doesn't have the exact information required to determine customs duties, the customs duties are chargeable based on the highest customs duty of those the goods are eligible to. Simplified customs declaration is used to declare and release under the declared customs regime goods declared by an AEO-C certified facility. It includes less information (compared to typical customs declaration) sufficient for product identification. Only an invoice or any other document that determines the value of goods shall be submitted along with a simplified customs declaration. Customs clearance at simplified declaring procedure is done using Automatic Customs Clearance System. Completion of simplified customs declaration releases goods for declared customs regime. Tariff Measures of import-export regulation and currency exchange rates determined under Article 3-1 of this Code are effective at the date customs authority accepted an additional customs declaration of goods cleared under such simplified declaration. Ukrainian Customs Code Article 259–260-1. Declarant or authorised person submits preliminary, provisional, simplified, or periodical declaration. Additional declaration can be submitted to pay customs duties for goods imported to Ukraine and released for respective customs regime exempt/conditionally exempt from customs duties. Customs declaration shall be submitted to customs authority within 10 days of the date of delivery these goods, commercial vehicles to the customs authority. Sea, river ships and aircraft shall be declared in destination port or airport of Ukraine. Empty vehicles and passenger vehicles will be declared at Ukrainian checkpoints. Customs authority registers and accepts customs declaration following procedure established by central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. Paper customs declaration shall be supported by an electronic copy. Invoice or any other document establishing goods value shall be submitted to customs authority together with the customs declaration. Customs declaration is accepted for customs clearance when submitted in conformity with the established form, signed by submitting person and verification confirms that it includes all required information and documents identified in this Code. After customs authority accepts customs declaration, it constitutes a legal document and the declarant or authorised person is held responsible. Only residents can act as declarants except for the case of moving across Ukrainian borders. Businesses can be declarant provided they are registered by customs authorities of Ukraine. Goods owned by individuals can be declared by their owners or other individuals entitled by owners on basis of notary certificate. Declarant must declare goods, commercial vehicles following the procedure established by this Code. The person authorised to declare goods, commercial vehicles has the same rights and responsibilities as the declarant. Declaring multiple items delivered as one batch can be declared under the same UKT ZEDclassification code for their free marketing in Ukraine. If some items of the above batch are subject to non-tariff regulation of import-export activity, this declaration method doesn't remove theDeclarant's responsibility. Customs declaration can only be withdrawn before customs clearance of goods, commercial vehicles is completed in accordance with declared customs regime. If goods,commercial vehicles cleared under export customs declaration haven't crossed Ukrainian borders within 180 days, customs authority recognises such customs declaration null and void. Customs officials cannot complete customs declaration, change provided information, except changes within their competence. The rules of charging other customs payments on goods moving across the customs border of Ukraine (except for duty) shall be determined by the Tax Code of Ukraine, taking into account the specific aspects determined by this Code. The following types of duties shall be imposed in Ukraine: 1) import duty; 2) export duty; 3) seasonal duty; 4) specific types of duty: special, anti-dumping, countervailing, additional import duty. Anti-dumping duty will be imposed in case of goods being a subject to dumping. Countervailing duty will also be imposed under the Law of Ukraine “On Protection of the National Producer against Subsidised Imports” Import surcharge may be imposed by law under Article XII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, 1994. Objects of taxation with duty shall be goods the customs value of which exceeds the equivalent of EUR 150. Tax point of duty payment in case of import of goods into the customs territory of Ukraine or export of goods from the customs Territory of Ukraine shall be the date of submission of the customs declaration for customs clearance. Duty rates, except for seasonal and specific types of duties, shall be set solely by the laws of Ukraine on taxation. In case of setting of any special preferential customs regime under international treaties ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, the preferential import duty rates set by the Customs Tariff of Ukraine shall apply. Exemption from customs duties (tax benefits) Article 282. Exemptions from customs duty in cases determined by this Code and other laws on taxation. It shall be prohibited to reduce import duty rates for certain individuals and under certain contracts. If the import of goods is a subject to anti-dumping, countervailing or special measures, tariff privileges shall not be set or suspended. 9) documents and publications sent within the international exchange to archival institutions, educational, scientific or cultural institutions, including libraries. 10) goods, including products, equipment, machinery, means of transport and other property items designated for the performance of the production sharing agreement. 11) archival documents purchased for the purpose of their inclusion in the National Archival Fund. The list of such goods with the indication of codes under the UKT ZED shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Goods and/or items paid for by grants (subgrants) provided under the programmes of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria in Ukraine. Group 90 (only for binoculars, night vision devices, thermal imagers, safety goggles, telescopic sights and other optical devices for military weapons); groups 93, except for those included in commodity items 9303—9304 and 9305. 8804 ( only for parachutes and other devices designated for landing of military servicemen and/or military equipment) Imposition of duty on goods moved across the customs border of Ukraine depending on the selected customs regime. In cases determined by the laws of Ukraine, goods placed under the customs import regime shall be subject to seasonal duty and/or specific types of duty. In case of release of goods with conditional partial relief from import duty, import duty shall be paid in accordance with the procedure determined by part 7, Article 106 of this Code. Conditional total relief from import duty shall apply to goods placed under the customs warehousing regime subject to compliance with the requirements and restrictions determined by Chapter 20 of this Code. The goods treated as humanitarian aid under the Law of Ukraine “On Humanitarian Aid” by the Commission on Humanitarian aid of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, shall be exempt from importduty. Exemption from import duty granted for the entire duration of the scientific park project, but no more than for two years for equipment. Machinery, equipment and accessories, as well as materials not manufactured in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by technological parks, their participants and joint ventures, shall be subject to import duty on the general grounds. The released funds shall be applied by relevant entities for: 1) arrangement of industrial parks, including using the cutting edge, energy saving technologies; 2) establishment of cutting edge technologies related to the economic activity within industrial parks. Violation of the requirements and conditions set out in parts 1—4, 6 and 8 of this Article shall give rise to the obligation to pay import duty and late payment fees. The number of letters in each letter of the alphabet is the number of a letter. The letters are written in the letters of the Roman numeral system. For example, a letter is written with the letter "q" followed by the letter "q" and the number is written as "q". The obligation to pay customs payments shall be terminated: 1) if goods before their release appear to be destroyed or irretrievably lost due to an accident or force majeure event; 2) if the goods are destroyed or abandoned to the state under this Code; 3) if they are forfeited under this code. 4) when the customs clearance of the goods and their release is completed, if the customs authority independently determines additional tax liabilities for a taxpayer. The goods placed under the customs regime, which under the provisions of the Code provides for no customs payments, are not subject to customs payments. When the total invoice value of goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine or exported from the customs Territory of Ukraine by citizens does not exceed the volumes not subjectto customs payments sunder Section XII of this Code. The persons obliged to pay customs payments shall include a person who unlawfully imported (exported) the goods, as well as persons involved in such illegal import (export) of goods. Customs payments shall be assessed in the national currency of Ukraine. The rates effective on the date of filing a customs declaration for the purpose of assessing customs payments shall apply. If the obligation to pay customs payments is imposed on several persons under the provisions of this Code, such persons shall be held jointly and severally liable for discharging such an obligation. The amount of customs payments due shall be assessed at the rates set on the date of movement of the goods across the customs border of Ukraine. In case of loss, non-delivery or release of goods without the authorisation of customs authorities under customs control and moved in transit or in temporary storage. The amounts of customs payments assessed by a declarant (his/her authorised person) or customs authority shall be payable directly to a single treasury account. Due dates for paying customs payments when goods are moved (sent) across the customs border of Ukraine by citizens shall be determined by this Code and the Tax Code of Ukraine. Customs payments may be paid in cash over in the cash desk of a customs authority or financial institution or via bank transfer through a financial institution. Amounts of customs payments shall be transferred to the State Budget of Ukraine from the specified accounts of the customs authority. In certain cases listed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, customs payments maybe paid in foreign currency at the exchange rate set by the National Bank of Ukraine. Advance payments shall be refunded if the refund application is filed with a customs authority within 1,095 days after the date such funds are deposited to the account of the customs authority. No interest on the amount of funds paid as advance payments Shall be accrued. If a taxpayer disagrees with the information of the Customs Authority, joint reconciliation on the use of such funds shall be carried out. The paid amounts of customs payments shall also be refunded: 1) if the law provides for refund of the paid amount of duty when placing the goods under the customs re-import or re-export regime; 2) in cases and in accordance with the procedure determined by this Code, where the customs regime declared before is changed. If goods imported or exported from the customs territory of Ukraine have defects or otherwise fail to meet the agreed specifications, unless such goods have been repaired or used within or outside Ukraine, the refund will be paid within the period specified. Late payment fees shall be charged for the period not exceeding three months after the date following the date of expiry of guaranteed obligations. The amount customs payments due shall be collected from persons responsible for their payment. Customs payments shall not be subject to collection if the unpaid amount of customs payments on the goods specified in the customs declaration is under UAH 20. Security of customs payments may be provided by either: 1) a financial guarantee; 2) a guarantee under the Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods under Cover of TIR Carnets (TIR Convention) of 1975; 3) a guarantees under the Convention on Temporary Admission (Istanbul, 1990) using the ATA Carnet. The financial guarantee shall be valid throughout the customs territory of Ukraine. Customs authority engaging the representatives of the guarantor who issued the guarantee shall establish the circumstances of such failure. The procedure for sending a demand and the list of required documents attached thereto shall be determined in the agreement provided for by part 3, Article 314 of this Code. The financial guarantee to secure payment of customs payments shall not be provided unless the amount of payments due exceeds EUR 1,000. The amount of a financial guarantee shall be determined by the customs authority based on the amount of customs payments due while releasing goods for free circulation within the customs territory of Ukraine or exporting goods from such territory under the customs export regime. Financial guarantee may be individual (one-time), multiple and general. Preliminary calculation of the basic amount of the general financial guarantee shall be carried out by the AEO independently taking into account the volume of future transactions. The AEO shall recalculate the basic Amount and submit it to the customs office, which has authorised to apply the special simplification “general financial guarantee” Multiple and general financial guarantees shall be provided in the form of a paper or electronic document. Absence in the unified automated information system of the customs authorities of Ukraine of an electronic copy of the financial guarantee on paper shall be the grounds for denying execution of a customs declaration or bonded transportation declaration. It shall not be allowed to amend a financial guarantee. Financial guarantees shall be provided to the customs authorities during or before the declaration of goods under the customs transit regime. The customs authority shall send a guarantor who has issued the guarantee in the form of a document the demand to pay customs payments. The guarantor must, within three business days following the date of receiving the demand and proof of occurrence of a guarantee, transfer a relevant amount of customs payments to the state budget. If transfer of customs payments under the demand of the customs authority is delayed, guarantors shall bear liability as persons responsible for paying the customs payments secured with a guarantee. If the guarantor fails to pay fund sunder the financial guarantees, such amounts due shall be considered to be the Guarantor’s customs debt. Financial guarantee shall be terminated: 1) at the request of the guarantor, unless a financial guarantee is attached to the customs declaration or bonded transportation declaration via an authorised e-mail notification. 2) in the absence of the fact of importation of goods into the territory of Ukraine under the previous customs declaration. 3) in case of revocation or invalidation of a customs declaration with an individual (one-time) financial guarantee attached. The funds deposited as a cash collateral on the account of the customs authority without any order on their use within 1,095 days after the date when they are deposited shall be returned to a person who deposited them. The procedure for depositing cash collateral and return shall be determined by a central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy.  have the clearance within the last three calendar years of not being subject to any special penalties provided for by the Law of Ukraine “On Foreign Economic Activities’. The relations between a central executive authority implementing the state customs policy and guarantors shall be regulated by the concluded agreements stating the obligation of a guarantor to unconditionally pay the customs payments. A legal entity intending to obtain the status of a guarantor under Article 314 of this Code must obtain an official confirmation on the compliance with (performance of) current standards for banking institutions. The period of verification by the customs authority the availability of debts under previous financial guarantees shall not exceed three business days after the submission of an application. Any goods and commercial means of transport crossing the customs border of Ukraine shall be subject to customs control. The ATA Carnet, a standardised international customs document used as a customs declaration for customs clearance of goods and as a guarantee document for payment of customs payments, shall apply. The customs authorities shall use a Unified Automatic Information System of Customs Authorities of Ukraine. Official control measures at the border checkpoints (control points) of Ukraine shall be carried out by the customs authorities. The list of documents and information to be checked in the course of the preliminary documentary examination shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Preliminary documentary examination commence upon presentation to the customs authority of goods, commercial means of transport and documents for such goods. Official of the relevant authorised body shall be immediately involved in the relevant inspection by an official of the customs authority. Within two hours from the involvement in the official control measures at the border checkpoint (control point) of Ukraine, the official shall be obliged to: 1) make one or several decisions on: granting permission to pass goods across the customs border of Ukraine for moving them to the point of destination in the territory of Ukraine. 2) enter information on the decision made and on the official who made such a decision into the Single State Information Web Portal. The passage across the customs border of Ukraine of goods which, if imported into the customs territory of Ukraine (including for transit purposes), are subject to official control measures shall be carried out on the basis of the information contained in the Unified Automatic Information System of Customs Authorities of Ukraine. Documents and information for official control Measures shall be entered into the Single State Information Web Portal “Single Window for International Trade” by the declarant. The legislation of Ukraine provides for the implementation, within the framework of official control measures, of certain procedures not specified in clause 1 of this part. The central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy shall ensure the possibility of introducing information on such procedures into the Single State Information Web Portal “Single Window for International Trade” 10. Release into the relevant customs regime (except for the customs transit regime) of goods which, if imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, are subject to official control measures. 11. An official of the relevant authorised body that carries out such measures shall immediately submit information on the decision made to the Single State Information Web Portal. The customs authorities shall coordinate the work of the relevant authorised bodies in respect of carrying out official control measures. Information on the release of goods into the relevant customs regime shall be submitted automatically to the Single State Information Web Portal “Single Window for International Trade” by the automated customs clearance system. The forms and scope of customs control shall be selected by: 1) customs officials based on the results of the application of the risk management system; and/or 2) automated risk management systems. The forms andscope of customs controls shall not be determined by other state authorities, and their officials may not engage in applying customs controls. The period of customs control of goods, commercial means of transport shall end: 1) in the case where they are imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, save for the customs procedures that require them to remain under customs control as long as such customs procedure is valid, and 2) when they are exported. In order to reduce the time of customs control and increase its efficiency, the customs authorities may use technical and special equipment as well as working dogs. The use and disposal of goods and commercial means of transport under customs control shall be prohibited save for the cases stipulated in this Code and other laws of Ukraine. Ukrainian customs authorities recognise the customs instrumentality of other countries. Means of identification may be changed or destroyed only by the customs authorities or, with their authorisation, by other authorities. Measures include micro- or other electronic devices, or serial numbers affixed to the goods or their parts. Seals of a special type shall be applied to goods, individual package units or other packages, containers, commercial means of transport. Information on such seals shall be included in the customs declaration. The requirements for the characteristics of special types of seals, their accounting and storage shall be established by the central executive authority. The boundaries of customs control areas at the Ukrainian border checkpoints shall be determined by the customs authorities by agreement with the competent national border control authorities. Buildings and facilities owned by the state bodies authorised to carry out official control measures shall be placed in the customs control area. Customs control area rules. shall cover official orders, prohibitions and/or restrictions. applicable to goods, commercial means of transport and citizens. Customs authorities have the right to take enforcement actions against violators of the customs control area rules. The list and procedure of enforcement actions shall be determined by this Code and other laws of Ukraine Chapter 49. The customs authorities shall require the persons moving the goods and commercial means of transport across the customs border of Ukraine to provide only those documents and information that are required for customs control. The customs authorities shall be entitled to send written requests and receive documents or their certified copies. Information from the official documents, presented for customs control and/or customs clearance, shall not require any additional confirmation. Law enforcement agencies, financial institutions and other regulatory authorities of Ukraine in accordance with the law shall notify the customs authorities of any available information. General declaration contains, inter alia, the name and description of a vessel, details of its registration and nationality. cargo declaration contains details on the name of ports of departure, ports of call, loading and unloading of goods. cargo list contains information on the number and composition of the crew at the time of arrival and departure.  c) a document containing information about (onboard) stores, loaded on and unloaded from the aircraft. d) transport (traffic) documents; e) commercial documents (if available to the carrier) for the goods being transported. f) a documents that accompanies international mail (if any) determined by the acts of the Universal Postal Union. The documents (information) or their details confirming that prohibitions and/or restrictions on goods crossing the customs border of Ukraine are observed, save for those required exclusively for placing the goods under the customs regime, shall be presented, including by using information technologies (or electronically) The invoice or other document that determines the value of goods and, in the cases prescribed by this Code, the declaration of customs value shall be submitted to the customs authority together with the customs declaration. Documents and/or information, including by using information technology, shall be presented to the customs authority. Clauses 1–7; Clause 8 (only concerning the documents confirming the security of customs payments). 4. Customs examination of goods, commercial means of transport, (re-)examination of hand luggage and baggage. Examination of documents and information submitted to the customs authorities when goods, commercial means of transport are moving across the customs border of Ukraine. Post-customs control. The customs authorities shall have the right to check the accuracy and completeness of the information that is stated in the customs declaration, entry summary declaration and other documents. Post-customs control shall be carried out on the premises of the customs authority. The declarant shall submit the documents indicated in the notification to the customs authorities for post-Customs control within 15 calendar days from the date of receipt of such notification. The customs authority shall notify the declarant about the results of post- customs control in written or electronic form. The costs related to such re-examination shall be paid by the holder of the goods, means of transport or person authorised by him/her. An exhaustive list of grounds shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If the (re-)examination establishes the fact of illegal movement of goods, commercial means of Transport across the customs border of Ukraine, the costs of such (re-examination) shall be reimbursed. The customs authority shall have the right to carry out the examination, and, if necessary, re-examination of hand luggage and baggage with their unpacking. The form of (re-examination report) shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. Personal inspection as an exceptional form of customs control shall be carried out under the written decision of the head or deputy head of the customs authority. The (re-)examination report, which form is approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy, shall be issued. A copy of the report shall be handed over to a citizen or person authorised by him/her. Personal inspection shall be conducted in an isolated room that meets sanitary and hygiene requirements. The President of Ukraine, the Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine and members of Parliament shall not be subject to personal inspection. Accounting of goods and means of transport moved across the customs border of Ukraine shall be accounted for by the customs authority. The customs officials may question orally the citizens and business officials for the purposes of customs control. If necessary, during the oral questioning, the protocol shall be drawn up, the form of which is approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. Review of the records of goods, commercial means of transport that are moved across the customs border of Ukraine and/or placed under customs control. The inspection findings shall be documented in the report. The report form shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. Customs authorities are entitled to carry out desktop audits to verify compliance with the customs legislation of Ukraine. The audit findings will serve as the basis for the customs authority to assess the amount of tax liability of the auditee for payment of customs charges. If the audit finds any indications of customs offence or smuggling, the customs officials shall take legally established actions. On-site desktop audits shall be carried out under the order of the appropriate customs authority considering the circumstances and grounds set out in this Code. If based on the desktop audit findings, the decisions on classification of goods for customs purposes taken by the customs authority in accordance with Article 69 of this Code are cancelled or amended. Unscheduled on-site desktop audit shall be an audit of an entity that is not scheduled by the customs authority. It may be carried out if at least one of the following circumstances occurs. The audit findings are inconsistent with legal requirements or clarification of the issues which should have been clarified during the audit is insufficient. The term of on-site desktop audit may be extended under the order of the competent customs authority, but such an extension shall not exceed 15 working days. The grounds for extension of scheduled on- site audits shall include: the entity’s application (if it is required to present the documents relating to the audit issues) and shift-based working hours. Suspension of on-site (scheduled or unscheduled) desktop audit shall halt the elapse of the audit provided that a copy of the order to suspend such audit is served to the auditee’s head or a person authorised by him/her against receipt. The audit may be suspended for the overall period of not more than 30 working days. 5) carry out a check analysis of raw materials, supplies and finished goods. 6) conduct cross-checks at the entities; 7) require the auditee’s heads and other officials to cease any actions that impede the customs officials to exercise their powers. 9) if customs officials are not given access to inspect territories and production, warehousing, commercial or other facilities or conduct check analyses. In the course of on-site desktop audit, the customs officials shall be obliged to: 1) carry out an audit in accordance with its programme approved by the appropriate audit order of the customs authority; 2) respect the rights and legitimate interests of the auditee’s employees. The results of cross-checking may be used only to confirm or refute the information contained in the customs declaration, declaration of the customs value, as well as commercial and other documents attached thereto. Cross-checks shall not be the audits and shall be carried out in the manner prescribed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. The report on refusal to sign the audit certificate shall constitute the ground for the start of such an audit. In case the auditee’s head or a person authorised by him/her refuses to admit the customs officials to conduct the audit, it shall be documented in a separate report. Off-site desktop audits shall be focused on the data about timeliness, accuracy, completeness of assessment and payment of customs charges when goods are moved by the entities across the customs border of Ukraine. The auditee must provide unobstructed access of the customs authority auditors to their locations and ensure conditions for performance of their duties. Off-site desktop audit shall be conducted by the customs officials in the premises of such authority, provided that a written notice indicating the start date and place of audit has been served. The presence of authorised officials of the auditee or citizen concerned in the course of the off-sitedesktop audit shall not be required. The documents which constitute a trade secret or are deemed to be confidential shall be passed to the customs authority official separately from other documents. Seizure of the original copies of primary financial and economic, accounting and other documents, except as stipulated in the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, shall not be allowed. The auditee’s head or a person authorised by him/her shall be entitled to apply in writing to the head of the customs Authority for extension of the period. The customs authority auditor shall be entitled to obtain the copies of documents relating to what is audited from the auditee. Those copies must be certified by theauditee’s head or a person authorised by him/her and sealed (if applicable) If the audit identifies any violations, there shall be issued a report. If no violations are noted, there will be a statement. Audit report (statement) shall be made in two original copies signed by the customs authority auditors and registered with the customs Authority within 10 working days following the end date of the audit period. If the auditee’s head or a person authorised by him/her refuses to sign the desktop audit report or statement, the customs officials shall document it in a separate report. If the auditee’s head or a person authorised by him disagrees with the audit opinion or observations and data outlined in the audit report or statement, they shall sign the report. The objections shall be considered by the customs authority within five working days following the date of receipt. After due consideration, the response shall be sent to theauditee. The audit report shall contain the facts of the understated and overstated tax liabilities of the auditee. The decision on the accuracy of commodity headings declared in the customs declarations in accordance with the UKT ZED, their customs value and country of origin, grounds for exemption from taxation shall be included in the audit report. The status of audit papers and opinions of the customs authority shall be determined under the Criminal Procedure Law. The entities shall ensure the storage of customs declarations and documents referred to in Article 335 of this Code. Financial, economic, accounting and other documents necessary for desktop audits to verify compliance with the customs legislation of Ukraine. Probes (samples) of goods shall be taken by the customs officials as part of customs control and customs clearance. When exporting goods from the customs territory of Ukraine, probes (samples) of goods may be taken only at the premises of the customs authority of departure. The customs authorities may require the foreign economic entities to provide only technical and production documentation for large-size and technically sophisticated goods. The standards for the taking of probes (samples) shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. Separate customs instrumentality shall be attached to each probe (sample) taken. The costs of testing (analysis, expert examination) of probes  incurred by the customs authority shall not be compensated. Probes (samples) of perishable goods or goods with a limited storage period shall be delivered for testing (analysis, expert examination) no later than the next day after their taking. Such testing ( analysis, expertexamination) shall be carried out to ensure that customs control and customs clearance are completed and shall not constitute forensic examination. The period of testing (analysis, expert examination) of probes (samples) shall be suspended if an expert requests the customs authority that initiated the testing to grant additional materials. Additional materials must be provided within 10 days from the date of their request. In case of failure to provide additional materials within the prescribed period, the head of a specialised expert examination and testing agency of the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy may decide to conduct a partial testing. In case of unjustified opinion or any doubts as to its accuracy, re-testing (analysis, expert examination) assigned to another expert may be initiated. Probes (samples) of goods that are perishable or have limited shelf life shall be kept over their storage life. The testing (analysis, expert examination) of probes (samples) of goods shall be paid at the expense of the state budget. The exemption from certain customs controls shall be determined by this Code, other laws of Ukraine and international treaties ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. Rail and air transport carrying official government delegations shall not be subject to customs examination. Risk refers to the probability of failure to comply with the customs legislation of Ukraine. The customs authorities shall apply a risk management system to identify goods, means of transport, documents and persons that are subject to customs control. The laws of Ukraine may determine other categories of goods that will be subject to priority customs treatment. Risk assessment and analysis, development and implementation of risk management measures shall be determined by the central executive authority. Automated risk management system used by customs authorities shall be an integral part of a Unified Automated Information System of the Customs Authorities. If goods, commercial means of transport moved across the customs border of Ukraine in 25 per cent and more instances of such movement during a year are subject to customs control, such entity shall have the right to know the reasons and grounds for applying appropriate customs controls. Citizens entering or leaving the territory of Ukraine by means of road and rail transport, as well as by personal vehicles, are allowed to declare the goods they move across the customs border of Ukraine, without leaving these vehicles. Customs controls shall not be carried out with regard to transit passengers who do not leave the transit zone, but the customs authorities shall have the right to take measures provided for by this Code. Movement of coffins with bodies (urns with ashes) or remains of the dead by citizens across the customs border of Ukraine shall be carried out on the basis of a written application. During customs clearance of such goods submission of a preliminary customs declaration, delivery and presentation of these goods to the customs authority is mandatory. Citizens passing (driving) through the “green corridor” shall be exempt from the submission of a written declaration. Exemption from submission of written customs declaration shall not mean exemption from mandatory compliance with the procedure for moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine. Terms of Sending Goods Across the Customs Border of Ukraine by International Mail and Express Mail. Personal belongings are: 1) personal hygiene products and individual cosmetics in quantities that meet the needs of one person for the duration of the trip. When shipped via international mail and express mail, personal belongings shall be moved (shipped) across the customs border of Ukraine in accordance with the procedure and under the terms established for the movement of goods. Exporting (Shipping) of Goods by Citizens Outside the Customs Territory of Ukraine. Goods, the total invoice value of which does not exceed the equivalent of 10,000 euros, are not subject to a written declaration. Goods for which the law imposes an export duty and/or if in accordance with the law the state authorities issue documents necessary to carry out customs control and customs clearance of such goods moved (shipped) through customs border of Ukraine by citizens are subject to written declaration in the manner prescribed for citizens. Temporary export (shipment) by residents of goods outside the customs territory of Ukraine shall be accompanied by the provision of the customs authority with the obligation to re-import. Part 1 of this Article does not apply to temporary export of goods with the total invoice value not exceeding the equivalent of 10,000 Euros (except for cultural property) Exports of precious metals, precious stones and products made of them, as well as cultural values for the purpose of their alienation is prohibited. It is not allowed to export alcoholic beverages and tobacco products outside the customs territory of Ukraine by citizens who have not reached 18 years of age. The procedure for export (shipment) of bank metals, commemorative coins of Ukraine from precious metals outside the Customs Territory of Ukraine shall be determined by the National Bank of Ukraine. Goods (except excisable) with the total invoice value not exceeding the equivalent of 500 euros and the total weight not exceeding 50 kg are not subject to written declaration. The norm set forth by part 1 of this Article shall be applied if a person importing goods into the customs territory of Ukraine enters Ukraine at most once in one day. In order to ensure compliance with this condition, officials of state border security who carry out passport control at checkpoints across the state border of Ukraine shall inform when carrying out such control customs officials about citizens who enter Ukraine more than once during oneday. Cultural values manufactured 50 or more years ago, regardless of their cost and the method of movement across the customs border of Ukraine, are subject to written declaration. Goods (except excisable goods) with the total invoice value not exceeding the equivalent of 150 euros, moved in unaccompanied baggage, are not subject to oral declaration. The tax base for such goods shall be the part of their total invoice value, which exceeds the equivalent of 150 euros. The following shall be exempt from customs duties when imported (shipped) by citizens into the customs territory of Ukraine: personal belongings defined by Article 370 of this Code; cultural values under codes 9701 10 00 00, 9701 90 00 00. Citizens can only import goods intended to meet the usual daily needs of the citizen and the initial accommodation if they have lived in the territory of the country for at least three years. The deadline to import (ship) the goods into the customs territory of Ukraine with exemption from customs duties is six months from the date on which a document confirming the citizen's right to permanent residence in Ukraine was issued. 5) goods that are part of the inheritance by law outside Ukraine in favor of a resident (including in the amount of one unit for each commodity item 8702, 8703, 8704 (with the total weight of up to 3.5 tons), 8711 according to UKT ZED), in case when its composition is confirmed by the bodies performing notarial acts in the country where inheritance takes place. This confirmation shall be subject to certification or legalisation in the relevant foreign consular office of Ukraine unless otherwise provided by international agreements ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. 6) goods received by residents in the form of awards and prizes at international competitions, contests outside the Goods under headings 8702, 8703, 8704 (with the total weight of up to 3.5 tons), 8711, 8716 according to UKT ZED are subject to temporary registration with the state registration authorities for up to two years. Goods may be alienated or transferred into possession, use or disposal of other persons (except family members of such citizens) for two years from the date of importation into the customs territory of Ukraine. Article 378. Restrictions on Import of Goods by Citizens to the Customs Territory of Ukraine. Goods under headings 8701-8707, 8711, 8716 according to UKT ZED are subject to state registration. Bodies (including cabs) for the motor vehicles under heading 87 01-8705, heading 8707, chassis with mounted engines are also subject to customs clearance as assembled vehicles. Goods specified in parts 1 and 5 of this Article, which have been registered in the relevant registration authorities of foreign states, shall be deregistered in these authorities. Citizens have the right to import temporarily or for the purpose of transit goods with the total invoice value and total weight not exceeding the criteria established by part 1 of Article 374 of this Code. Food items without the manufacturer's packaging shall not be subject to movement into the customs territory of Ukraine in unaccompanied baggage. Temporary importation of domestic animals in the amount of not more than 3 mammals, 6 birds, 20 aquarium fish shall be allowed. The terms of temporary importation of goods by citizens into the customs territory of Ukraine (except for the cases provided for by Article 380of this Code) shall be established in accordance with Article 108 of this Code, and the terms of transit pursuant to Article 95 of this code. Temporary importation by non-residents of personal vehicles classified under headings 8702, 8703, 8704 (with the total weight of up to 3.5 tons) is allowed subject to written declaration. Temporary importation by residents of personal vehicles classified under headings 8702, 8703, 8704 (with the total weight of up to 3.5 tons), 8711 according to UKT ZED is allowed for up to one year. Vehicles imported by residents in connection with the performance of their duties under employment contracts with non-resident enterprises shall be considered vehicles for personal use. Temporarily imported vehicles for personal use may be used in the customs territory of Ukraine only by citizens who have imported these vehicles into Ukraine for their personal needs. Such vehicles cannot be used for business purposes and/or income generation in Ukraine, nor disassembled or transferred to other persons for possession, use or disposal. Residents who are on temporary consular registration in the consular office of Ukraine abroad, shall have the right to temporarily import into Ukraine one personal vehicle use classified under heading 8703. The procedure for state registration of personal vehicles temporarily imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by citizens shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Citizens are allowed to place in the transit customs regime personal use vehicles. These requirements shall not apply to vehicles permanently registered with the relevant registration authorities of a foreign country. Diplomatic missions of foreign states in Ukraine may import into the customs territory of Ukraine and export from its customs territory goods intended for official use by such missions with exemption from customs inspection and payment of customs duties. Personal luggage of the head of a diplomatic mission of a foreign state, members of the diplomatic staff of the mission, as well as members of their families residing with them, shall be exempt from Customs inspection. Members of the administrative and technical staff of a diplomatic mission of a foreign state and members of their families living with them, if they are not citizens of Ukraine and do not live in Ukraine permanently, may import into Ukraine goods intended for initial accommodation. Motor vehicles intended for personal use, with exemption from customs duties in the amount of not more than one motor vehicle per family. The list of goods that can be classified as those intended forinitial accommodation is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Consular offices of foreign states, consular officers, as well as members of their families, shall be provided with customs privileges established by this Code. Members of foreign delegations who come to Ukraine to participate in international negotiations, international conferences and meetings or other official assignments. Customs privileges for international organisations and related representations of foreign states shall be determined by international treaties of Ukraine. Diplomatic staff, consular officials of foreign missions, members of their families, as well as persons specified in part 1 of this Article, who are transiting for the same purpose through the territory of Ukraine will be granted customs privileges. Motor vehicles intended for official use by representations of foreign states and international organisations in Ukraine shall be declared to the customs authorities. Motor vehicles referred to in part 2 of this Article may be alienated in the customs territory of Ukraine after the change of the customs regime in which they have been placed from the moment of their temporary importation. Motor vehicles referred to in part 2 of this Article may be alienated in the customs territory of Ukraine after the change of the customs regime in which they have been placed. This rule shall not apply to cases of alienation of specified vehicles in accordance with Article 109 of this Code to other persons who enjoy customs privileges. The customs authorities shall apply the following measures to goods suspected of infringing intellectual property rights. Customs authorities shall suspend the execution of customs formalities in respect of such goods. Customs control and customs clearance of goods containing property items, protected in accordance with the law, and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine shall be carried out per standard procedure taking into account the special aspects established by this Code. Exports from the customs territory of Ukraine of goods intact, customs clearance of which has been suspended on suspicion of infringement of intellectual property rights, shall be prohibited until the procedure of such suspension is completed. In case of suspension of customs clearance, reimbursement of expenses related to the storage of these goods shall be made at the expense of the right holder. The right holder having the grounds to believe that while moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine their intellectual property rights are or might be infringed is entitled to apply to the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy. Article 399. Suspension of customs clearance of goods on the basis of the customs register data. Customs authority may issue a permit for the storage of goods, whose customs clearance has been suspended, without placing them in the customs warehouse. If the customs authority receives information from the right holder about the presence of signs of infringement of their intellectual property rights, the placement and storage of the goods in the warehouse will be mandatory. The suspension of customs clearance of the above-said goods may be extended by the customs authority but not for more than 10 working days. The right holder and/or the declarant may take samples (specimen) of goods in respect of which a decision has been made to suspend customs clearance. The customs authority may, at its own initiative, suspend customs clearance of the said goods, except for perishable ones. The goods, which are the direct subject matter of the offence, shall be seized. If within the term specified in part 2 of this Article any infringement of intellectual property rights, while moving goods, is confirmed by the report of the examination conducted by the relevant competent authority, the customs authority shall initiate the customs offence proceedings. Customs clearance of goods containing industrial designs, inventions, species of plants or topographies of semiconductor products has been suspended. If the right holder fails to submit an application for facilitation of protection of their intellectual property rights to the customs authority within the period specified in part 5 of this Article, the customs clearance of such goods will be carried out in the manner prescribed. The owner of goods whose customs clearance has been suspended on suspicion of infringement of intellectual property rights is exempt from administrative liability under Article 476 of this Code. Samples (specimen) of such goods shall be taken by the customs authority together with the right holder. The organisation and payment of the destruction procedure, including the cost of storage, transportation, destruction, paperwork and other costs associated with compliance with the customs regime of destruction or elimination shall be at the expense of the right holders. Suspension of customs clearance and destruction of small consignments of the goods being moved (shipped) across the customs border of Ukraine in international postal and express items. If there is a suspicion that such goods may be counterfeit or pirate, goods are not perishable. Information about the intellectual property item, the goods containing it, and the consent of the right holder to apply the procedure of destruction is required. The customs authority may consider that in so doing the consent of the goods owner to their destruction has been given. In the process of customs clearance, it is allowed to change identification marks or markings on goods or their packing to eliminate the signs of infringement of intellectual property rights. Such operations shall be carried out at the expense of the right holder or other persons as agreed with them. Customs authorities interact with other state authorities empowered in the field of protection of intellectual property rights under the procedure established by the laws of Ukraine. Permits for carrying out the activities specified in clauses 3–6 of Article 404 of this Code shall be issued by customs, in the areas of activity of which they can be used. Permits for carrying out the activities specified in Article 404 of this Code shall be valid indefinitely. Permits may be revoked or suspended for the period up to 30 days by the bodies authorised to grant such permits. A reasoned refusal to grant the permission shall be sent to the applicant in writing. An appeal against a decision to refuse a permit shall be made in accordance with the procedure established by this Code. The permission is revoked: 1) in case the enterprise fails to eliminate the circumstances specified in clauses 1 or 2, part two of this Article within 30 days following the day of suspension of the permission. 2) at the request of the enterprise to which the permission has been issued. A customs broker is an enterprise that provides services for declaring goods, commercial vehicles that move across the customs border of Ukraine. Permissions for carrying out the activities specified in Article 404 of this Code shall be granted and reissued free of charge. The application for re-issuance the permission shall be submitted in the same manner and shall be considered within the same period. A duty-free shop is a specialised trade body located at a checkpoint across the state border of Ukraine. It is open to international traffic, as well as on an air or water commercial vehicles operating international flights. Duty-free shops in the prescribed manner carry out trade in all types of food and non-food goods, except for goods prohibited by law to import into Ukraine. Holders of duty-free shops may, in accordance with the procedure provided for in this Code, obtain permission for the opening and operation of a customs warehouse or temporary storage warehouse of closed type for storage and subsequent delivery to these stores of all types of goods, including excisable goods. Exports outside the customs territory of Ukraine are prohibited by Law. Open customs warehouse is intended for storage under customs control of goods moving across the customs border of Ukraine. Relationship of the customs warehouse keeper with the customs authority shall be determined by the procedure of operation. Dangerous goods, goods that may harm other goods, or goods that require special storage conditions may not be placed in customs warehouses that do not provide appropriate conditions. The holder of a customs warehouse shall keep tabs on goods placed in this warehouse and released from it and shall submit quarterly to the customs authority a report on the movement of goods in the warehouse for the previous quarter. The owner of the goods or the person authorised by him/her shall bear the responsibility provided by this Code. In case of suspension or revocation of the permit for opening and operation of a customs warehouse, placement of new consignments of goods in this warehouse shall not be allowed. The administrative responsibility for the breach of the term of disposal of goods stored in the customs warehouse established by part two of this Article shall be borne by the owner of the specified goods, the person authorised by him/her or the warehouse keeper. The relationship of the holder of a free customs zone of commercial or service type with persons who place goods in these zones shall be determined by the relevant agreement. The construction (repair) of economic facilities on the territory of the free customs zones is carried out by virtue of the permission of the customs authority. In order to ensure proper customs control in the territories of free Customs zones, the customs authorities have the right to issue permits. Foreign and Ukrainian goods may be imported into the territory of the free customs zone. Dangerous goods, goods that may harm other goods, or goods that require special storage conditions are allowed in the territory. Goods may be placed in free customs zones of commercial type without unloading them from vehicles. The sale and/or consumption of foreign goods in thefree customs zone is prohibited. In case of suspension or revocation of the permit for opening and exploitation of a free customs zone, it is not allowed the placement of new consignments of goods in this zone. Within 90 days from the date of revocation, goods must be moved under customs control by their owner, authorised person or holder of the free Customs zone. Any goods may be placed in temporary storage warehouses. However, dangerous goods, goods that may harm other goods, or goods that require special storage conditions may not be placed. Goods stored exclusively by the customs authorities according to part 1, Article 238 of this Code shall not be subject to temporary storage. Cargo customs complex is a section of territory with a complex of buildings, structures, engineering and technical means and communications necessary for customs control and customs clearance of goods, commercial vehicles moving across the customs border of Ukraine. The holder of the cargo customs complex must comply with the provisions of this Code, to adhere to conditions of permission for the opening and exploitation of the complex. The tasks of customs statistics are: 1) objective and reliable accounting of data on the transfer of goods across the customs border of Ukraine; 2) the submission of statistical, reference, analytical information on customs issues and international trade in goods to public authorities in the manner prescribed by Law; 3) the provision of relevant information to international organisations and customs authorities of other countries. Customs statistics of international trade is generalised and appropriately systematised information on the movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine. It is prohibited to require statistical information, which is not provided for in the state statistical reporting, this Code and other laws of Ukraine from the customs authorities. The central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy has access as a user to the automated information and reference systems. Information on export-import operations of specific subjects of foreign economic activity may be provided only to pre-trial investigation bodies in the case of criminal proceedings. The central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy, approves regulatory and technical documents used for customs declarations and other customs formalities. The requirement of the first paragraph of this part does not apply to citizens who move personal belongings, personal vehicles and other goods for personal, family or other needs not related to business activities.  registration of persons who in the course of their activities are participants in the relations regulated by the legislation of Ukraine on customs matters. Failure to register with the customs authorities of the persons specified in part one of this Article shall be grounds for a refusal to accept the customs declaration, customs clearance, release or admission of goods, commercial vehicles. The procedure of conducting non-public control over the movement of goods is determined by this Code and the relevant regulations. The subjects of administrative liability for violation of customs rules may be the citizens who at the time of such an offence has reached 16 years, and officials of these enterprises. The following administrative penalties may be imposed for customs rules violation: 1) a warning; 2) fine; 3) confiscation of goods. Carriers are responsible for the movement or actions aimed at moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine with concealment from customs control. Confiscation as an administrative penalty for customs rules violation is the forcible seizure of goods, vehicles referred in clause 3, Article 461 of this Code. Confiscation may be applied only by a court decision in cases, to the extent and in the manner determined by this Code and other laws of Ukraine. Citizens who do not cross the customs border of Ukraine and government officials who don't take measures of official controls – entail a warning or imposition of a fine in the amount of twenty non-taxable minimum incomes. Illegal transactions with goods whose customs clearance has not been completed, or with goods, which are temporarily under customs control. Exceeding the time limit for delivery of goods, including personal vehicles, commercial vehicles under customs control, established by Article 95 of this Code – entails a warning or a fine of ten non-taxable minimum incomes. Non-delivery of goods to the customs authority destination, their issuance without the permission of the customs Authority or their loss – entail the imposition of a fine. The breach of the procedure of customs control in the zone (corridors) of simplified customs control entails a fine of one hundred non-taxable minimum incomes. Shipment across the customs border of Ukraine in international express shipments of goods prohibited for such shipment by the legislation of Ukraine – entails confiscation of these goods. Non-declaration of goods, commercial vehicles 1. Failure to declare in the prescribed form accurate and reliable information (availability, name or title, quantity, etc.) about goods. Obstruction of a customs official during customs control or proceedings in the case of smuggling or violation of customs rules entails a fine of one hundred non-taxable minimum incomes. Movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine in violation of intellectual property rights. Breach of the procedure for storage of goods in customs warehouses and operations with these goods. Carrying out operations with the goods stored in the customs warehouses, which is provided by part two, Article 127 of this Code, without the permission of the customs authority – entails the imposition of a fine of twenty non-taxable minimum incomes. Breach of the order or terms of disposal of goods placed in a duty-free shop, in case of liquidation of the store or suspension or revocation of the permit for its opening and exploitation – entail a fine. Movements or actions aimed at the movement of goods, commercial vehicles across the customs border of Ukraine outside customs control – entail the imposition of a fine of 100 percent of the value of the goods. Movements oractions aimed at moving goods, including commercial vehicles, outside the location of the customs authority or outside its working hours. The loss of these vehicles, including their dismantling, – entails the imposing of afine of ten thousand non-taxable minimum incomes. Movements or actions aimed at moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine with dissimulation from customs control. Part one of this Article, committed by the person who during the year was prosecuted for committing an offence under this Article or Article 483 of this Code, – entail the imposition of a fine of 200 percent of the value of goods. Ukrainian customs rules state that illegal actions aimed at evading customs duties can lead to a fine of up to 300 percent of the unpaid amount of customs duties. Customs rules include those related to storage, transportation, purchase or use of goods, commercial vehicles imported into the customs territory of Ukraine outside customs control.  Proceedings in the case of violation of customs rules shall be considered started from the moment of drawing up the report. Official is obliged to find out: whether an administrative offence has been committed, whether the person is guilty of committing it, whether he is subject to administrative liability.  Proceedings in the case of violation of customs rules shall be carried out by customs officials in the area of activity of which such violation was committed or detected, except as otherwise expressly provided in parts two and three of this Article. The head of the central executive authority implementing the state customs policy or his deputy has the right to transfer the case for implementation of proceedings from one customs office to another. The person who is held to administrative liability for violating customs rules has the right to explain and comment on the content of the protocol, as well as to state in writing the reasons for his refusal to sign the protocol. If necessary, the protocol shall also indicate the place, date and time of consideration of the case of violation of customs rules. The protocol, as well as seized goods, including vehicles for personal use, commercial vehicles and documents specified in the protocol, shall be transferred to the customs office. The official of the customs authority, who carries out proceedings in the case of violation of customs rules, evaluates the evidence according to his inner conviction, based on a comprehensive, complete and objective examination of all the circumstances. Legal representatives, representatives acting by virtue of a power of attorney; 4) defenders; 5) representatives of customs authorities; 6) witnesses; 7) experts; 8) translators; 9) attesting witnesses; Article 498. Rights and obligations of persons who are held to administrative liability for violation of customs rules. Personal participation in the case of a citizen does not deprive him of the right to possess a representative in this case. A power of attorney for a serviceman may be certified by the commander of a military unit. Customs officials, as well as judges, prosecutors, crime investigators and employees of the unit that carries out operational and investigative actions may not be representatives of persons prosecuted for violation of customs rules. Lawyers and other specialists in the field of law are allowed as defenders, who according to the law have the right to provide legal assistance personally or on behalf of a legal entity. Close relatives of a person who is subject to administrative liability for violating customs rules, a witness, their guardians or trustees may be defenders. The representative of the customs authority has the right to review the documents attached to the case, make extracts from them or take copies. The translator is a person who is proficient in a language, such as these knowledges are necessary for making the translation during the proceedings in the case of violation of customs rules. Witnesses are the persons who are involved in the conduct of procedural actions in the case of violation of customs rules. The witnesses certify by their signatures the conformity of records in the protocol to the carried-out actions. A relative of a person who is held administratively liable for violating customs regulations, as well as customs officers, may not be a witness. The official of the customs authority may not bring about proceedings in the case of violation of customs rules, if he is a relative of the person prosecuted for this offence. The issue of transferring such a case to another official shall be decided by the head of this authority or his deputy. The period of administrative detention of a person who is in the office of the customs authority or in another room in connection with customs control or customs clearance of such goods, vehicles is calculated from the moment of issuance of a motivated written decision on its administrative detention. The customs authority that has temporarily detained a person shall notify his/her relatives without delay. If the detained non-resident citizen has no relatives on the territory of Ukraine, it is necessary to inform about it a diplomatic mission or consular post of the relevant foreign state. A protocol on the survey shall be drawn up in the form established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. An official of the customs authority, who has a case of violation of customs rules, may interview the person who is brought to administrative responsibility for this offence. Temporarily seized goods, including personal vehicles, commercial vehicles and documents must be listed in the protocol, drawn up in the cases provided for by this Code. Customs inspection shall be carried out in the presence of officials of the enterprises specified in part one of this Article. Appeal against the temporary seizure of goods and vehicles may be appealed in the manner prescribed in Chapter 44. Customs officials have the right to invite specialists to participate in customs inspection. A protocol on the customs inspection shall be drawn up in the form established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. The person who committed this violation, as well as the witness may be presented goods, vehicles, documents for identification. The decision to appoint the examination is binding on the expert, as well as on the officials of the enterprise where the expert works. The expert's conclusion is not binding on. the official of the customs authority, in the proceedings of which there is a. case of violation of customs rules. An official of a customs authority has the right to entrust the conduct of specific procedural actions to an official of another customs authority. A protocol shall be drawn up on the taking of samples and specimens. Expenditures in the case of violation of customs rules shall consist of costs for inventory, storage, transportation (forwarding) of goods. In the absence of signs of a criminal offence in the actions of the person who committed the violation of customs rules, the proceedings in the case of this offence may be terminated by means of compromise. The procedure for reimbursement of expenditures, calculation of amounts to be reimbursed, as well as the procedure for disposal of received funds shall be established by the central executive authority. A person who has committed a violation of customs rules shall apply to the head of the customs authority with a statement of any form with a request to terminate the case. The amicable agreement shall be concluded in writing. The right to sign it on behalf of customs is granted to the heads of these customs or their deputies. The cases of violation of customs rules shall be considered by the heads of these customs or their deputies, and on behalf of the central executive authority implementing state customs policy. The period of consideration of the case is 15 days from the date of receipt of the materials necessary to resolve the case. A case of violation of customs rules shall be considered by a judge alone. The resolution on conducting an additional inspection shall specify the specific subjects, tasks and terms of the inspection. These actions must not break human rights or cause damage to the economic activity of the legal entity. Reimbursement of funds specified in this part shall be carried out by performing treasury services budget from the state budget. The legality and validity of the decision of the customs in the case of violation of customs rules may be verified by a court or central executive authority. The procedure for appealing a court resolution (judge) is determined by the Code of Ukraine on Administrative offences and other laws of Ukraine. The control of the legality and validity of the decision in the case of violation of customs rules by the court is carried out in the manner prescribed by the Code of Administrative Procedure of Ukraine. The amounts of fines shall be returned to the persons who were brought to administrative responsibility for this offence, or to their authorised persons from the state budget. The customs authority that issued the decision to impose an administrative penalty for violation of customs rules, executes it independently or through a state executor. Article 535. General provisions on the procedure for execution of the resolution of the customs authority on the imposition of an administrative penalty. The amount of fine shall be paid by the person who violated the customs rules to the state budget in accordance with the procedure established by the legislation of Ukraine. If the fine is not paid within the period established by Article 539 of this Code, the resolution of the customs authority or court (judge) shall be sent for enforcement. The purpose of customs authorities is to create favorable conditions for the development of foreign economic activity. The direct implementation of customs affairs shall be entrusted to the customs authorities. In case of absence in Ukraine of property belonging to the persons specified in Part one of this Article, the procedure for execution of the customs authority on imposition of administrative penalties for violation of customs rules shall be determined by the legislation of Ukraine. 7-1) implementation of state export control within the scope of the powers vested in the customs authorities in accordance with this Code and other laws of Ukraine. Article 545.1: The central executive authority implementing the state customs policy of Ukraine, including the role of customs authorities. Customs is a customs authority which in the area of its activity ensures the implementation of tasks assigned to customs authorities. Customs carries out its actions on the territory of one, two or more administrative-territorial units of Ukraine. Heads of customs are appointed and dismissed by the head of the central executive authority implementing the state customs policy. Customs officials shall wear uniforms with appropriate insignia issued free of charge. It is allowed to sew uniforms by customs officials at their own expense with reimbursement of expenses for such tailoring. Incentive awards of customs authorities in the form of medals, lapel badges, badges, diplomas are established. Provision of finance, material support and infrastructure development of customs authorities are carried out using state budget funds. Customs authorities coordinate with law enforcement agencies in the manner prescribed by law. Law enforcement agencies are obliged to notify the customs authorities in writing of any breaches of customs regulations or smuggling they have identified. Customs authorities are obliged to render instructions to the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine on informing the customs authorities about the intention to cross the state border of Ukraine. If persons prosecuted for violation of customs regulations were present at drawing up of the report on violation of Customs rules. Local state administrations and local authorities shall promote the actions of customs bodies and coordinate with them within the scope of the powers established by law. Customs authorities control the movement of cultural property across the customs border of Ukraine in cooperation with the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of cultural heritage protection. The head of customs and his deputies have the right to hold working meetings with representatives of the customs authority of a neighboring foreign country in order to resolve urgent issues. Coordination of customs authorities of Ukraine with customs and other authorized bodies of foreign states, as well as with international organisations on combating smuggling and violations of customs regulations. Recruitment to the customs authorities of Ukraine is carried out on a competitive basis, unless otherwise provided by law. Citizens of Ukraine who have reached the age of 18 years old and are able to perform the tasks assigned to these authorities shall be admitted. The legal situation of customs officials is determined by this Code, and in the part which is not regulated by it. The number of civil service positions in the customs authority, the appointment of which are made with the conclusion of a civil service contract, shall not be limited. Customs officials may not hold positions in which they can not take decisions on the actions of enterprises whose actions are controlled by the customs authorities. The duration and mode of work, rest time of customs officials shall be established in accordance with the labour code of Ukraine, considering the features provided by this Code. The system of vocational education in the field of customs includes: training of specialists who have higher education; 2) retraining of customs officers; 3) training of scientific and academic staff. People who study in a specialised higher educational institution of the customs authorities on a full-time study are awarded the title "cadet", "senior cadet" by the head of the specified educational institution. Customs officials are protected by law. Legal orders and requirements of customs officials provided in the performance of their official duties shall be binding on individuals and legal entities. Customs officials have the right to use physical force for: 1) termination of violations of customs rules, detention of persons who committed them, overcoming resistance to lawful orders or requirements of customs officials. In order to ensure the correct and effective use of physical force, special means, firearms, special training sessions and periodic checks of suitability for the specified actions shall be conducted. The list of special means used by customs officials and the procedure of their application shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The measures taken shall not exceed the limits necessary to ensure the implementation of the tasks assigned to the Customs service of Ukraine and shall minimise the capability of harming the health of offenders. The state shall ensure a sufficient level of remuneration of officials and customs authorities employees in order to create material conditions for their independent and conscientious performance of official duties. The salary of the official and the customs authorities employee consists of: 1) fixed salary; 2) seniority allowance; 3) allowance for the special rank of customs officials; 4) payment for additional workload. Customs officials and members of their families living with them shall enjoy their right to free medical care in public and municipal health facilities. Damage caused to the property of a customs official or members of his family arising out of the performance of his official duties shall be reimbursed in full. This Code shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the month in which it is published. From the day on which this Code enters into force, the following legislation shall lose its effect: 1) Customs Code of Ukraine (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 2002, Nos. 38–39, Article 388 amended as follows); 2) Law of Ukraine “On the Procedure for Importation (Forwarding) to Ukraine, Customs Clearance and Taxation of Personal Belongings, Goods and Vehicles That Are Imported (Forwarded) by Citizens into the Customs Territory of Ukraine” 8) Article 2 of the Law of Ukraine “On Measures on State Support of Shipbuilding Industry of Ukraine” (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 2000, No. 3, Article 20); 9) The Law of. Ukraine ‘On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Customs Issues’ (The official Bulletin of. the Ver Khrkovna. Rada in 2000 was No. 13, Article 109); 10) The law of Ukraine. “ on Amendments to certain Laws of Ukraineon Taxation Issues” 11) clause 3 of Article 2 “Final Provisions” of the Law of Ukraine “On Providing for Implementation of Investment Projects in Turkmenistan” (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 2002, No. 35, Article 259); 17) The Law of. Ukraine ‘On Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Taxation Issues’ No. 25) Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 20 May 1993 No. 54-93 “On the Liberalisation of Foreign Economic Activity” (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 1993, No. 28, Article 301); 26) Law of Ukraine ‘On Amendments to the Decrees of the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine On Customs Regulation’ (the Official Bulletin, 1994, no. 20, Article 117); 27) clause 2 of Article 5 “Final Provisions” of the Law of. Ukraine “About Support of the Olympic, Paralympic Movement and Elite Sport in Ukraine’ The following goods are temporarily exempt from import duty when imported into the customs territory of Ukraine and placed under the import customs regime: until 1 January 2015 – goods that are not produced in Ukraine. The price of the goods will be set by the Ukrainian government;. It will be decided by the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine on a case-by-case basis. There will be no limit on the amount of goods that can be imported. The list and volumes of specified goods with the identification of their headings according to UKT ZED shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by 1 September 2012. goods (except excisable) that are not produced in Ukraine or are produced, but do not meet the technical characteristics of the world level and the requirements of international sports organisations, in order to be used in construction and equipment (purchase of equipment and inventory) of sports facilities.  goods imported by residents – space activity entities subject to provisions of Article 2 of the Law of Ukraine “On State Support for Space Activity” and classified under the following headings according to UKT ZED. The procedure, volumes of import of the specified goods shall be defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Until 1 January 2016 – equipment, machinery and components that are not produced in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by domestic enterprises of the shipbuilding industry. 5) until 1 January 2019 – machinery, equipment, facilities used for the reconstruction of existing and construction of new enterprises for the production of biofuels. The contract concluded in order to implement the national project “Air Express’, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, provides for the construction of a railway passenger service Kyiv – Boryspil International Airport. goods (except excisable) that are not produced in Ukraine or do not meet the requirements of the project, imported into the customs territory of Ukraine under the import customs regime. The procedure and volumes of import of such goods shall be determined by the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine. In this subclause, the following definitions shall apply: equipment (machinery) – machines (except vehicles), mechanisms, devices, tools intended for use in the technological process carried out during the implementation of the investment project. The procedure for import, the list and volumes of the specified goods with the identification of their headings according to UKT ZED shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Under UKT ZED, goods imported by aircraft manufacturers are subject to Article 2 of the Law of Ukraine “On State Support of Aircraft Construction Industry of Ukraine’ The law applies from 1 January 2025 until the end of the current parliament. The procedure and volumes of import of such goods shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. New equipment (machinery) and its components, imported by an investor with significant investment exclusively for their own use in the implementation of an investment project. The relevant goods were manufactured not earlier than three years before the date of their importation into the customs territory of Ukraine, were not in use and are classified under the following headings. Exemption from import duty shall be granted within the period of the investment project implementation. The provisions of this subclause shall not apply to goods originating in a country recognized by the occupying State in accordance with the law. The term “investor with significant investments” shall be used in the meaning provided in the Law of Ukraine “On State Support of Investment Projects with Significant Investments in Ukraine”. In case of violation of the requirements of this clause regarding the procedure for targeted use of goods exempt from customs duties, the norms of clause 30.8 of Article 30 and Article 123 of the Tax Code of Ukraine shall be applied. Special personal protective equipment (helmets, bulletproof vests, shock absorbers), classified under heading 6506 10 80 00 according to UKT ZED. Measures of non-tariff regulation of foreign economic activity established by this Code and the laws of Ukraine shall not apply to such goods. Medicinal products and medical devices in accordance with subclause “c” clause 193.1 of Article 193 of the Tax Code of Ukraine.  medicinal products and medical devices without their state registration and permits on the possibility of their import. intended for use by health care institutions, participants in the anti-terrorist operation, persons involved in the implementation of measures to ensure national security and defence, repulse and deter armed aggression of the Russian Federation in Donetsk and Luhansk regions. In this paragraph, the term “goods” shall mean machinery, equipment, machines, mechanisms, devices, tools imported for the purpose of reconstruction of existing and construction of new buildings and structures. Goods, commercial vehicles placed under the customs regime of temporary importation in accordance with this clause may be used without restrictions during the performance of works and/or provision of services under the Project. Vehicles, including vehicles, classified under headings 8702, 8703, 8704 according to UKT ZED may be placed under the customs regime of temporary importation with conditional full exemption from customs duties. Customs clearance, customs control and customs clearance formalities of goods and vehicles specified in this clause shall be carried out at the venue of the final events of the UEFA Champions League 2018 or customs at the checkpoint across the state border of Ukraine in the first place. For the period of validity of the Laws of Ukraine “On Ensuring the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Temporarily Occupied Territory of Ukraine” ,the norms of this Code shall be applied taking into account these laws. Registration of non-residents in the customs authorities is mandatory effective July 1, 2021. The central executive authority, which implements the state customs policy, assesses compliance with the AEO criteria with regard to at most 10 enterprises simultaneously. 1) during the second and third years from the date of entry into force of the Law of Ukraine “On Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine on Certain Issues of Functioning of Authorised Economic Operators” the central executive authority, which implements the state customs policy, simultaneously assesses compliance with AEO criteria with regard to at most 20 and 30 enterprises, respectively. 2) the basic principles of the organisation and implementation of the goods common transit regime through the customs territory of Ukraine will be governed by a separate law. Customs authorities are allowed to use copies of permits issued by state bodies, institutions and organisations authorised to carry out permitting or control functions for the movement of goods, commercial vehicles across the customs border of Ukraine. Customs declarations of certain types corresponding to the types of customs declarations introduced by the said Convention shall be used to declare goods. The national subsystem of the computerised transit system of the European Union shall be used to ensure that the customs authorities complete customs formalities during the transit of goods. Refund of amounts of customs duties paid with error or overpaid before the date of entry into force of this Code shall be made in accordance with the procedure established by this Code. Customs clearance of vehicles for their free circulation in the customs territory of Ukraine, classified under heading 8703 according to UKT ZED, is subject to payment of appropriate customs duties and voluntary payment to the state budget. Temporarily, until 30 June 2020, to implement measures to prevent the occurrence and spread of coronavirus disease. Customs clearance of goods specified in the second paragraph of this clause shall be carried out first. The fee for the performance of customs formalities outside the location of the customs authorities or outside business hours established for them, shall not be charged. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall: develop and submit to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine within a month a draft law on amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine.