This Law defines the specifics of leasing out of individual state-owned fuel and energy complex facilities. The decision on the expediency of leasing these facilities shall be made by the central executive authority implementing state policy. Relations on leasing out facilities not regulated by this Law shall be regulated by the Civil, Economic, and Land Codes of Ukraine. The decision on the expediency of leasing out fuel and energy complex facilities shall be made by the authorised management body on the initiative of legal entities that may be a lessee in accordance with this Law. An application (submission) containing an initiative to lease a fuel andEnergy complex facility shall be submitted by interested persons. The authorised management body of the state-owned fuel and energy complex facility will prepare its organisational and technical preparation for lease. The cost of commercial reserves shall not be taken into account. The lease will be for a period of no more than five years, with a mandatory annual reduction in the burden on the state budget of Ukraine. Application must be accompanied by statutory documents. Financial, economic and statistical information about the lessee. Investment plan for the operation and development of the leased facility. Information confirming the applicant's ability to ensure proper financing of their activities. The functions of managing the facility for lease shall not be transferred to the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Only those lessees who have received the appropriate conclusion of the authorised management body on the possibility of lease of such a facility shall be allowed to participate in the tender for the lease of fuel and energy complex facilities. The State Property Fund of Ukraine shall, within ten days after the approval of the tender documentation, publish the information about the invitation to tender in the official printed publication. Tender offers received by the Tender Commission after the established deadline shall not be considered. If no tender offer is submitted, a new tender shall be issued. A tender winner shall be an applicant who offered the best lease terms in accordance with the tender documentation. The State Property Fund of Ukraine shall, in agreement with the authorised management body, make a decision within 10 calendar days to determine the tender winner. The State Property Fund of Ukraine shall enter into a lease agreement with the tender winner after approval of all conditions and acceptance of its final version. Disputes related to holding of a tender shall be considered in court. The essential terms and conditions of the lease agreement for the fuel and energy complex facilities shall be as follows: regarding business activities. The lease agreement includes terms and conditions relating to economic, social and environmental activities of the leased facility. These include ensuring the reduction of receivables and payables, ensuring timely payment of taxes and fees, insurance premiums, ensuring monthly payment of wages to employees of the enterprise. The agreement also includes terms relating to the preservation of coal reserves of abandoned deposits. Lease agreements for fuel and energy complex facilities shall be subject to notarial attestation. Lease agreement may specify a set of additional obligations of the lessee to improve the quality of relevant services and/or development of the leased facility for a period of not less than five years. If termination of the state-owned enterprise that operated the respective facility before its lease occurs, the agreement shall determine the guaranteed number of employees dismissed. The lessee shall ensure, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement, the use of the leased fuel and energy complex facility under its intended purpose. For the production and provision of relevant goods and services, the lessee may engage other legal entities under a contract (service agreement). The risk of accidental destruction and damages to the leased facility shall be borne by the Lessee. The state shall retain the right of ownership of leased fuel and energy complex facilities, including reconstructed or technically re-equipped by lessees at the expense of depreciation deductions. Depreciation is accrued on the leased object by the lessor or its authorised body. The amount of accrued depreciation deductions shall be quarterly notified to the lessee within the term established by the lease agreement.  Termination of the lease agreement shall not release the parties from the obligations under the agreement, which at the time of its termination remained unfulfilled. The lessee shall bear the obligation to produce and/or provide the relevant goods and services in the amount established by the agreement and of the proper quality, until the return of the leased facility. This Law shall become effective 60 days after its publication. Relations arising from lease or concession agreements concluded prior to the entry into force of this Law shall be regulated by the legislation that was in force before the entry. into force. Lessees or concessionaires of fuel and energy complex facilities shall have the right to participate in the procedure of debt repayment. The listed below legislative acts of Ukraine shall be amended. “Granting special subsoil use permits to a business entity that has received an integral property complex of state-owned coal mining enterprise for lease or concession” “The lessee or concessionaire shall produce coal and (or) lignite (brown coal) at the leased or concessioned facility based on a valid special permit”