A mineral resource base is a set of proven and pre-estimated mineral reserves and related components that can be applied in economic sectors. The mineral resource complex provides a significant share of the gross national product. Almost 20 thousand deposits and presence of 117 types of mineral resources are present in the bowels of our country. Ukraine extracts considerable amounts of black coal (1.7 per cent of the total world extraction volume), commercial iron (4.5 per cent) and manganese ores. Deposits of non-traditional minerals for Ukraine, namely chromium, lead, zinc, copper, molybdenum, beryllium, lithium, tantalum, niobium, rare-earth elements, fluorspar, apatite, oil shale, bischofite, etc. Ukraine already imports oil, gas, some non-ferrous and rare metals, coking coal, magnesite, hydrofluoric and feldspar. Due to the lack of funds, the volume of geological exploration has decreased by 3–4 times. The priority development of new energy technologies based on significant reserves of hard and brown coal in Ukraine, organic-rich shale (shale gas), peat, etc. The Programme aims to meet the needs of the national economy in mineral resources through its own extraction. It aims to reduce Ukraine's dependence on imports of mineral resources, and increase the country's export potential. The Programme's goal is to fully comply with modern European principles of sustainable development. Mineral raw materials in Ukraine's current state are not competitive compared to imported raw materials. They cannot be cost-effectively processed at domestic enterprises by current technologies. The need for such raw materials can be restored as a result of mastering the latest technologies for processing or pre-processing the corresponding ores. Ukraine occupies a prominent place among the CIS countries, Europe, and the world in terms of proven reserves and the extraction of mineral raw materials. In the context of the growth of global integration processes and globalisation, it is necessary to develop the national geological industry. The objectives of the Programme are defined in the priority areas of the mineral resource base development. As of 1 January 2010, the total volume of all hydrocarbons' level of initial total resources was about 54 per cent. The Eastern region has sufficient potential to increase oil and gas extraction. The Western region also has significant prospects for increasing hydrocarbon reserves and their extraction. The annual growth of their reserves for up to 2030 is 2 per cent due to the available hydrocarbon resources. Coal extraction and its processing into coal products remains the main source of meeting Ukraine's energy needs. The existing mine fund is characterised by high wear and low technical level, resulting from which the domestic coal industry is unprofitable. As of 1 January 2010, Ukraine's balance sheet reserves of Categories A+B+C1 and C2 are estimated at 313.9 billion cubic meters of methane from coal deposits. No organisation has ever been engaged in targeted theoretical and practical research on the problems and possibilities of extracting natural gas from shale rocks in Ukraine. In 2010, according to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Ukraine produced more than 202 billion kilowatts of electricity. 47.4 per cent of electricity was produced at nuclear power plants. Ukraine has prospects for discovering deposits with rich uranium mineralisation, which will significantly improve the mineral resource base state. There are 54 iron ore deposits in Ukraine, of which 22 are in operation. Rich iron ores and ferruginous quartzites are extracted from the deposits of Kryvyi Rih, Kremenchuk and Bilozirka iron ore basins. In terms of total reserves of manganese ores, Ukraine ranks second after the Republic of South Africa and first in terms of proved reserves. Iron-manganese and manganese iron ores found in the Middle Pobuzhia. These ores are usually oxidized and easily enriched, making them cost-effective for processing. Chemical industry provision with so-called high-quality peroxide concentrates previously imported from Georgia. Ukraine may reduce the import of chromium concentrates from Kazakhstan and Russia in the coming years due to the exploration and commissioning of Kapitanivka chromite deposit on the Ukrainian Crystal Shield. The operation of this deposit will partially meet the needs of the domestic metallurgical industry. The problem of meeting the domestic industry needs in its own aluminium raw materials is very urgent, despite its considerable resources in general on the territory of Ukraine. Raw materials for Mykolaiv Alumina Plant (enterprise capacity for alumina is about 1300 thousand tons) and Zaporizhzhia Aluminum Combine are imported high-quality bauxite. Ukraine does not have industrial reserves of copper ores, despite the total rather significant projected resources. Rafalivka and Hirnytskyi ore nodes have already been identified as the most promising in this territory. In total, there are more than 150 copper ore occurrences on the territory of Ukraine. Some of them can be considered as potential deposits. Cobalt in Ukraine does not form independent deposits but it is in nickel ores and their processed products. On the territory of Ukraine, the deposits of both metals are represented by silicate ores of the ultrabasite residual soil. Prospects for the sulfide nickel content of Ukraine are limited, but there are some prerequisites for discovering industrial deposits of nickel sulfide. Lead-zinc ores of fairly high quality are known in two regions of Ukraine: Transcarpathia and the south-eastern part of the Dnipro-Donets Rift. The operation of Muzhievo gold and polymetallic deposit can only partially meet the needs of Ukraine. In Ukraine, the titanium metallogenic province covers the north-eastern part of the Ukrainian Crystal Shield and the Dnipro-Donets Rift. There are 78 deposits of various levels of study. Of these, 19 are accounted for by the state balance of mineral reserves. Seven deposits are at different stages of industrial development. The demand of the economic complex of Ukraine for tin and its alloys is estimated at 700-800 tons per year. Along with titanium, it is also planned to extract vanadium from ilmenite and rutile concentrates. In recent years, in the Eastern Pryazovia region, promising manifestations of tungsten have been identified. Ukraine imports molybdenum concentrates mainly from China and Russia in small volumes (up to 350 tons) There are no explored deposits of molyBdenum in Ukraine, although its numerous ore occurrences are widely distributed on the territory of the Ukrainian Crystal Shield. Three highly promising areas for discovering industrial moly bdenum deposits are identified. Tantalum and niobium in Ukraine is the highest in Europe. Currently, the extraction of tantalum-niobium raw materials is not carried out. Production facilities for the production of finished products are not practically used due to the reduction in concentrate production in Russia. Ukraine has significant and promising lithium resources. Lithium in micaceous minerals with a lithium oxide content of 0.2–0.6 per cent forms large accumulations in the Donets Basin. Imports from Russia provide Ukraine's needs for lithium products (approximately 100-200 tons per year in terms of metal) It is estimated that Ukraine's needs for rare earths today amount to hundreds of tons. Several hundred points of rare-earth concentration have been identified on a scale ranging from deposits to ore occurrences. The state balance of mineral reserves includes Novopoltavka apatite-rare metal ore deposit (Zaporizhzhia oblast) Ukraine is one of the leading countries in the world in terms of resources and reserves of zirconium and hafnium. Hafnium does not form its own minerals but is a constant impurity in zirConium. Vilnohirsk Mining and Metallurgical Combine operates on the reserves of Malyshevsk placer deposit. Ukraine is one of the leaders in the European subcontinent in terms of scandium resources. Scandium reserves are a concomitant component in four complex deposits. All of them are located within the Ukrainian Crystal Shield and are associated with Precambrian bedrock complexes. In Ukraine, for the first time in the world geological practice, rather large (up to 50 microns) phases of metallic rhenium or its natural intermetallic compounds were detected in ultrabasites of Kapitanivka group massifs. Rhenium is a scarce, scattered element with the smallest Clarke (7x10-8) of all platinoids and lanthanides. The industrial development of Muzhievo gold and metal deposit started in 1999. It is possible to ensure an increase in reserves of up to 80–100 tons of gold, 1 thousand tons of silver and about 2.5 million tons of lead and zinc within the single mining allotment. The total forecast resources of the Donbas are estimated at 400 tons ofgold.  continuation of search and evaluation works on the Ukrainian Crystal Shield within the prospective structures of known ore fields and zones. Study of black-shale strata of the Donets Basin, promising for the detection deposits of Kokpatas, Bakyrchik, Murun-Tau type. implementation of a comprehensive geological and economic assessment of the forecast resources of the identified gold deposits. As of today, there are no proven reserves of platinum group metals in Ukraine. There are quite high overall prospects for platinum-bearing properties of various geological formations. The first kimberlite manifestation on the territory of Ukraine was discovered near the village of Kukhotska Volia in 1975. Seven kimberlite bodies, manifestations of lamproite magmatism, a significant number of massifs of ultramafic alkaline rocks and carbonatite-like formations have been identified in the Pryazovia region. In addition to these regions, the prospects for detecting industrial diamonds in the complex of geological and geophysical data are real. There are significant deposits of fluorspar in the eastern part of the Ukrainian Crystal Shield, on its south-western and northern slopes. The state balance of mineral reserves considers two deposits with reserves of 18 million tons. All four fields are not in operation due to the lack of significant capital investment for their development. Ukraine occupies one of the leading places among the CIS countries regarding the number of established manifestations of bentonites. The most significant bentonite deposits are found in the Transcarpathian, Cherkasy, Ternopil, Khmelnytskyi oblasts and Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Ukraine has large reserves of refractory clays and moulding sands explored within Donetsk folded structure, the Dnipro-Donets Rift and the sedimentary cover of the Ukrainian Crystal Shield. State balance of mineral reserves includes 18 deposits, including four accounting objects for clay reserves of complex deposits. In Ukraine, the study of serpentinite massifs was one-sided. In Dnipropetrovsk oblast, Pravdynsk talc-magnesite deposit has been explored. In metallurgy, a significant part of magnesite is processed into forsterite refractories. Ukraine's annual demand for disten-sillimanite concentrates is 400 thousand tons. Promising areas for identifying deposits of this raw material are the Pryazovia region and the northern part of Zhytomyr oblast (Sushchany-Perzhansk zone) Apatite This type of raw material belongs to Category D. The total reserves of apatite ores in Ukraine amount to 842.2 million tons of phosphorous anhydrite. Deposits of granular phosphorites have been discovered in Ukraine. Arable land in Ukraine is 27.5 million hectares. Every year after harvesting, the soil loses approximately 1 million tons. Ukraine has long been one of the world leaders in the native sulfur production. The main volume of sulfur was extracted by open-pit mining. The transition to a more progressive method of underground sulfur smelting has led to a sharp reduction in sulfur production (70–80 thousand tons) Ukraine's annual demand for native sulfur to produce 98% sulfuric acid is 2 million tons. Potash salts are distributed within the Dnipro-Donets Rift and the pre-Carpathian regional trough. It is planned to provide proven reserves of industrial categories to the existing Stebnyk and Kalush Processing Plants. Stone-coloured raw materials includes traditional varieties for Ukraine: amber, topaz, beryl, rock crystal. Natural coloured stones (precious, semiprecious, and ornamental) can be one of the most profitable budget-filling minerals in market conditions. Certain types and deposits of this stone can make a significant profit with relatively little time and money spent on their exploration and development. Of all the types of natural coloured stones in Ukraine, amber is currently the most competitive. Several deposits are being developed for the needs of the sugar industry. It is planned to search for and explore limestone deposits in Vinnytsia and Khmelnytskyi oblasts. Glauconite, a concomitant component of phosphorite ores, is an important natural adsorbent. Ukraine has large resources of various rocks used to produce rubble and crushed stone. It is planned to start producing just such raw materials in the required amount. Granite deposits are the most promising. Their use will make it possible to organise production in a short time and with the lowest financial costs. Feldspar rocks of the Archean-Proterozoic are widely developed within the Ukrainian Crystal Shield. For many years, the created mineral resource complex does not meet the needs of the Ukrainian industry. Deposits developed in Ukraine supply low-quality raw materials. It is necessary to carry out work on the technology of enrichment of alkaline kaolins. The annual volume of solid waste in Ukraine is only 0.6 billion cubic meters. About 8.6billion cubic meters of solid industrial waste have been accumulated on the area of more than 50 thousand hectares. Geological mapping of the territory makes it possible to assess the prospects for developing the raw material base. Currently, about 75 per cent of the territory of Ukraine is covered by the works related to the creation of State Geological Map-200. In many ways, medium-scale maps do not meet modern requirements. In the European Union countries, geological content maps are issued on a scale of 1:50000 or larger. The share of underground water in the domestic drinking water supply of the population of Ukraine is only about 30 per cent. In contrast, in the EU countries, water supply for municipal needs is mainly based on underground water. The main result of regional geological, hydrogeological, ecological and geological studies is maps of various scales. The explored underground water deposits of Ukraine are developed only by 20–25 per cent. A significant number of explored deposits are not used. Some of them are already unsuitable for operation due to the development of the territory. The problems of providing high-quality drinking water to the southern and eastern regions of the state remain relevant. The impact on the living conditions of zones of tectonic disturbances, increased migration of radon, mercury vapour, methane, carbon dioxide within their boundaries has not been sufficiently studied at the regional level. The following is planned: performing revaluation of forecast and prospective resources, as well as operational reserves of underground water. As a maritime power, Ukraine conducts various geological surveys in the water area within the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine. Geological, geophysical, and drilling operations carried out by many countries have shown that shelf zones and continental slopes are highly promising for many types of mineral raw materials. It is necessary to provide modern technical equipment, devices, and equipment to meet the world technical level to perform the tasks set. It is planned to carry out these works at the expense of non-state investments, the volume of which at the second stage of the Programme implementation amounts to more than 7 billion UAH. The main task of this laboratory is to register and collect data on variations of different fields in the well in the range of 2800–5300 meters. The purpose of regional geophysical studies is to obtain preliminary data on the tectonic structure, distribution of geological formations, features of their internal structure and material composition. These studies are also carried out to search for mineral deposits, including hydrocarbons, and solve specific tasks during the forecast and geological surveys. The Programme provides for the allocation of funds for technical re-equipment of the industry in the amount of up to 30 per cent of the costs of geological exploration during 2011–2015. In the next 2016–2030 years, funds will be allocated for technicalRe-Equipment. The efforts will be concentrated in the following areas: drilling rigs and drilling equipment. The Programme is designed for the period up to 2030. It will be implemented in three stages. The first stage covers 2011–2012. The second stage covers 2013–2020. The third stage covers 2021–2030. It aims to create favourable conditions for attracting domestic and foreign investments to finance the geological study of subsurface resources. The third stage covers 2021–2030: implementation of the main scope of the Programme's long-term goals and objectives. accelerated development of the mineral resource base, progressive growth of the rate and volume of use of strategically important minerals for the Ukrainian economy. increase in the volume of exports of raw materials, intermediate and final products of its processing. gradual reduction of dependence on raw material imports. Ukraine's mineral resource base will be developed over the next 20 years. The Programme will include the creation of own production of the necessary types of mineral raw materials imported from other countries. It will also include the preparation of new fields for profitable exploitation by Ukraine's own efforts and using foreign investments. The Programme's activities are implemented by the State Service of Geology and Mineral Resources of Ukraine. The Programme Manager is the Chairman of the State service. The period of implementation of the Programme is 2011-2030. Projected volumes and sources of financing: Financing sources include state budget and other sources.