This Law shall specify legal and institutional frameworks, core principles and rules for state supervision (oversight) in the area of commercial activity. It also defines powers of state supervision bodies, their officials and rights, duties and responsibilities of business entities during the implementation of such measures. State supervision measures shall be defined as scheduled and ad hoc measures carried out. This Law shall not apply to relations resulting from foreign exchange operations supervision, tax supervision, customs oversight, state export oversight. Supervision over the observance by gambling operators of the requirements of the Law of Ukraine “On Government Regulation of Activities in the Field of Organisation and Conduct of Gambling” shall be conducted under the statutory procedure. The bodies exercising state supervision (oversight) as prescribed by this Law must ensure the observance of the requirements of Article 1, Article 3, part 1, part 4, parts 6–8, paragraph 2, part 10, parts 12–14 of Article 4. The central executive authority for education quality assurance and its regional branches must ensure exclusive compliance with requirements of the Law of Ukraine “On Education” State supervision (oversight) shall be conducted based on: priority of security in matters of human life and health, the functioning and development of society, the environment and life activities. The inadmissibility of conducting inspections of business entities on the basis of anonymous and other unsubstantiated claims. The inevitability of liability of persons for submission of such claims. State supervision (oversight) shall be conducted at the place of economic activity of an economic entity or its separate subdivisions. If the business entity is built into an implementation plan of state supervision, the corresponding planning measures will be conducted by all the state supervision authorities combined. The production (manufacture) or sale of products, the performance of works or the output of services by business entities may be halted only by a court decision. State supervision (oversight) authorities and business entities are entitled to record the process of carrying out a planned or ad hoc measure or each separate action via audio and visual equipment. Failure to comply with writs, orders and other administrative documents entails the imposition of sanctions on the business entity. Officials of the state supervision ( oversight) authority must preserve trade secrets and confidential information. State supervision (oversight) authorities provide a special regime of protection and access to information constituting commercial secret, as required by law. An integrated automated system of state supervision ( oversight) shall be set up to provide business entities and state and local authorities with information on state supervision. Authorities must use only standardised forms of acts. Data containing information with restricted access to the integrated automated system of state supervision (oversight) shall not be entered. Access to information from the automated system shall be conducted via the Internet and shall be open and free of charge. Establishment and operation of the system will be ensured by the central executive authority implementing state regulatory policy. Planning activities shall be conducted in accordance with annual plans approved by the state supervision (oversight) authority no later than 1 December of the year prior to the planning one. It is not allowed to conduct more than one planned state supervision. measure respecting the same business entity by the same state supervision authority. A business entity is entitled to refuse the conduct of complex planned state. supervision. The plan for implementing the comprehensive state supervision (oversight) measures for the relevant period under planning shall be approved by the central executive authority implementing state regulatory policy and policy on supervision. Comprehensive planned state supervised measures shall be conducted under the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The state supervision authorities shall adopt the annual plans for the implementation of the planned state supervision measures. The central executive authority implementing state regulatory policy and policy on supervision (oversight) in the area of commercial activity, licensing and permit system in the field of activity and deregulation of commercial activities shall develop the Methodology for developing criteria for assessing the risk of conducting commercial activities. Criteria used to determine the frequency of conducting state supervision ( Oversight) measures shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Annually until 1 April, state supervision (oversight) authorities shall prepare reports on the annual plans of the implementation of state supervision activities for the previous year. The duration of the planned measure may not exceed 10 working days and, in the case of micro-, small-scale enterprises, five working days. State supervision (oversight) authority is obliged to notify the business entity within 10 working days of the need to correct the error. Failure to correct an error within the established period shall lead to ad hoc measure conduct. Failure by a business entity to submit mandatory reporting documents for two consecutive reporting periods, without valid reasons or written explanations of the reasons. Businesses must get familiarised with the grounds for the ad hoc measure conduct, providing it with a copy of the relevant certificate (referral) for the state supervision (oversight) conduct. Individuals who have filed unfounded complaints about the violation of the law requirements by business entities shall be liable to the penalties provided for by the law. Officials of the state supervision (oversight) authority must present the head of the business entity, a legal entity, its separate subdivision or the authorised person. Certificate (referral) shall be valid only for the duration of the activity specified therein. A business entity is entitled to prevent officials from conducting a measure if they have not produced documents provided for herein. A writ is a written requirement by an official of a state supervision (oversight) authority to a business entity to eliminate violations of the law requirements. A directive may provide for the imposition of sanctions prescribed by law to the business entity. If there are grounds for the total or partial suspension of production (manufacture), sales of products, the performance of works and the provision of services, the state supervision. authority shall apply in accordance with the procedure and periods established by law. The administrative document of the state supervision (oversight) authority for the elimination of violations detected in the course of the conduct of the measure must contain the following information: date of preparation; measure type (planned or side); measure form (inspection, audit, examination, overlook) The document must also include the position, name, first name and patronymic of the official who conducted the measure. If the writ, directive, decision or other regulatory instrument for the elimination of irregularities detected in the course of supervision (oversight) conduct is fully implemented within the prescribed period, the financial and administrative sanctions, response measures to the business entity or its officials shall not be imposed. State supervision (oversight) authorities must publish regulatory acts (other than those with access restrictions) on their official websites. State supervision (control) bodies and the central executive authority implementing state regulatory policy, policy on supervision ( oversight) in the area of commercial activity shall provide comprehensive and accurate information. An official or officer of a state supervision (oversight) authority shall be liable, by way of recourse, to the amount of compensation paid from the relevant budget for unlawful decisions, acts or omissions of such official. The central executive authority implementing state regulatory policy, policy on supervision ( oversight) in the area of commercial activity. Powers of the central executive authority in charge of shaping state policy on state supervision (oversight) in the area of commercial activity shall include. ensuring the preparation and approval of plans of state supervision. drawing up reports on administrative offences in cases provided for by law. Providing recommendations and explanations to the centralExecutive authority implementing the state regulatory policy and policy on supervision. State supervision (oversight) shall be conducted in violation of the legal requirements regarding the frequency of such measures. Official did not submit copies of the documents provided by the Law or if the submitted documents fail to conform to the requirements hereof. Officials did not provide a copy of the approval from the central executive authority implementing state policy in the relevant area. A business entity is obliged to allow officials of the state supervision (oversight) authority to conduct measures. Failure to comply with writs, orders or other administrative documents for the elimination of violations of legislation requirements provides for the imposition of fines. Sanction imposed on a business entity for the first violation may not be higher than the minimum sanction provided for by the relevant law. Businesses and officials of business entities, a legal entity, shall not be liable if refuse to explain their activities. If a business entity fails to pay the fine imposed on the basis of the state supervision (oversight) measures results conducted within 15 calendar days of the date on which the administrative document was served or sent, the amount of the sanction shall be recovered by the courts. The official collecting products samples for expertise (testing) shall ensure their safety and timely delivery to the place where the expertise ( testing) shall be conducted. Act of collecting of the product samples shall be drawn up in triplicate. All copies of the act shall be signed by an official who has collected products samples and by a business entity. Experts shall be hired on a contractual basis at the expense of the state supervision (oversight) authority under the law. The expertise (testing) period shall be fourteen working days from the date of assignment of the decision on the expertise ( testing) The dispute shall be settled in court. Expenses with regard to follow-up expertise ( Testing) shall be conducted under the Law. Business entities may involve third parties to protect their rights and legal interests in the course of state supervision (oversight) conduct. Public associations represented by their duly authorised representatives shall be entitled to conduct advocacy of rights and legitimate interests of business entities. A business entity is entitled to refer to the appropriate central executive authority or the court to appeal decisions. Pending introduction of provisions on simplified taxation, accounting and reporting of small business enterprises, there is a moratorium on state supervision (oversight) within commercial activities. The moratorium applies to individual entrepreneurs not registered by value-added taxpayers, whose activities are not considered to be at high risk hereunder. V. YUSHCHENKO President of Ukraine. City of Kyiv. No. 877-V. 5 April 2007No. 876-V, 5 April 2008, 5:30 p.m. (GMT) No. 7-8, 5pm (GMT-8), 5:45 p.M. ( GMT-9), 5am (GMT -9)