This Law defines the main legal, economic, and organisational bases of activities at heat supply facilities. It regulates relations related to the production, transportation, supply, and use of heat energy. It aims to ensure the energy security of Ukraine, improve the energy efficiency of heat supply system operation, create and improve the thermal energy market.  thermal power system is a set of power units, equipment and pipelines that provides transportation of heat transfer medium from a thermal energy source to the consumer's heat input. Heat supply facilities are heat-generating units or installations, thermal power plants, boiler facilities, co-generation plants, heat networks. Security zone of heating networks is a territory along heating networks, allocated to ensure normal operating conditions, prevent damage and reduce negative impact on people, adjacent lands, natural sites and the environment. Current accounts with special terms of use for handling accounts under investment programmes (hereinafter referred to as special accounts) are accounts of business entities in the area of district heating. tariff (price) for heat energy is the monetary value of costs for production, transportation, supply of a unit of thermal energy. This Law shall regulate relations in connection with the production, transportation, supply and use of thermal energy, state supervision (oversight) in the areas of heat supply, operation of thermal power equipment and performance of works at heat supply facilities by business entities, regardless of the form of ownership. Parties to relationships in the field of heat Supply are individuals and legal entities. The state policy in the field of heat supply shall be based on the following principles: ensuring the state's energy security. The main directions of the heat supply system development shall be the following: heat supply planning, development and implementation of heat Supply schemes for cities/towns and other settlements in Ukraine. State support in the field of heat supply shall be provided in accordance with the amount of funds stipulated by the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine and local budgets for the corresponding year. funds for conducting scientific research to improve heat supply and energy-saving systems. implementation of highly efficient thermal power equipment and materials in newly built and operating heat supply systems. Powers of the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of housing and utility. Co-ordination of activities of the ministries and other central executive authorities. Long-term forecasting of thermal energy consumption. Organisation of control and metering in this area. The principal powers of local authorities in the field of heat supply shall include: regulation of activities of the parties to relationships in theField of Heat Supply within the jurisdiction of relevant councils. Oversight over the supply of consumers in cities and other inhabited localities with thermal energy. Review on its own initiative and/or at request of a business entity of tariffs for thermal energy produced at installations using alternative energy sources. The subject of the state supervision (oversight) in the field of heat supply is business activities related to the production, transportation, supply and use of thermal energy. The method of state supervision is the implementation of relevant studies, checks, examinations, inspections of the heating and heat-using plants and networks. Inspectors of the State Energy Supervision shall be entitled to access in accordance with the procedure established by law to heating and heat-using plants and networks of the parties to relationships in the field of heat supply. The specified written request must contain an exhaustive list of information, explanations, certificates, etc., to be provided in response. The government regulation of heat supply activities shall be carried out in the form of: licensing certain types of business activities in this field. Regulation of tariffs for the production, transportation and supply of thermal energy taking into account changes in prices for energy products and other costs. monitoring activities of the parties to relationships in the field of heat Supply. applying appropriate sanctions for violations of the conditions and rules ofbusiness activities in theField of Heat Supply. The powers of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblast, Kyiv and Sevastopol city administrations in regulating activities in the field of heat supply shall include: licensing of business activities for the production of thermal energy, its transportation by main and local (distribution) thermal networks. The establishment of tariffs for thermal energy to the subjects of natural monopolies. The protection of consumer rights; informing the public about work. Businesses that produce, supply and transport thermal energy and hold a monopoly (dominant) position in the thermal energy market may not cease their activities or reduce the supply of thermal energy. Heat-generating entities using various technologies for the production of heat energy shall have equal rights of access to the heat energy market. The consumer shall pay the heat supply entity on a monthly basis for the heat actually received. Payment for thermal energy produced using natural gas supplied in full or in part by a guaranteed supplier shall be made by thermal energy consumers and heat supply entities. Payment by the consumer of thermal energy by transferring funds to an account with a special mode of use shall be a mandatory condition of the thermal energy supply contract. The National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission, and local government within the powers defined by law. Tariffs for thermal energy for business entities producing it on installations using alternative energy sources, including heat and power plants, thermal power plants and co-generation units, for the needs of institutions and organisations financed from the state or local budget. The calculation of weighted average tariffs for transportation and supply of thermal energy produced using natural gas for the needs of the relevant category of consumers shall be carried out by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of efficient use of fuel and energy resources, energy saving, renewable energy sources and alternative fuels. The National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission and local authorities shall provide information necessary for the calculation. Tariffs must take into account the cost of thermal energy and ensure the profitability of the business entity. Tariffs for thermal energy produced and supplied by autonomous heating systems shall be formed and set separately for each apartment building equipped with an autonomous heating system. Losses of heat-generating and heat supply entities as a result of providing benefits for payment for consumed thermal energy to certain categories of consumers shall be fully recovered from funding sources. Heat-generating entities, regardless of organisational and legal forms and forms of ownership, shall have the right to access the mainstream and local heating networks. Disputes on the scope of work specified in the technical conditions for connection shall be considered in accordance with the law. If in the case of centralised heating the technological costs of thermal energy or fuel costs exceed the normative level, this may be grounds for termination of existing contractual relations with them. Change of ownership or transfer of ownership of the relevant facilities for the production, supply and transportation of thermal energy should not lead to deterioration of the conditions and quality of heat supply to consumers. Business activity for production, transportation, supply of Thermal energy shall be subject to licensing in the manner prescribed by law. The thermal energy consumer shall be responsible for violation of the terms of the contract with the heat supply entity, the relevant laws and regulatory acts, and compliance with the instructions of the authorities. Heat-generating, heat transporting and heat supply entities shall have the right to enter into thermal energy sale contracts with consumers. If the consumer refuses to pay for the consumption of thermal energy, the debt shall be collected in a judicial proceeding. If there is a technical possibility, heat supply entities supplying thermal energy in the assigned territory shall not have the right to refuse the consumer located in this territory. Funding of capital construction, renovation and maintenance of heat supply facilities shall be carried out at the expense of customers. Business entities operating in the field of heat supply shall open special accounts in the manner prescribed by law. The use of these funds for any other purpose shall be prohibited. The owner of the special account for credit funds shall ensure control and is responsible for the targeted use of funds in accordance with the terms of the agreement (agreements) To ensure the safety of the population living in the area of heat supply facilities, protected zones shall be established. All types of business activities in protected zones may be carried out only with the consent of the owner of the heat supply facility or the authority authorised by it. Business entities that have concluded contracts for the supply of energy products with heat-generating or heat supply entities must notify the local executive authorities in writing no later than 24 hours before introduction of restrictions. The personnel of heat-generating installations who undergo the influence of thermal and electromagnetic radiation, as well as other harmful factors, shall be subject to special medical examination. Strikes at heat supply facilities shall be prohibited in cases where they can lead to a violation of the stability of heat supply to consumers during the heating season. 6) for the supply of thermal energy which parameters do not meet the approved standards for thermal energy. 7) for unauthorised disconnection of the consumer from the heat network of the heat supply (heat-generating) organisation before the expiration of the contract of sale of heat energy. 8) for water intake from heating systems using taps and other devices. 9) for violation of the requirements of laws and regulatory acts and/or norms and rules. The decision to impose a penalty in cases of violations provided for by this Law can be appealed in court. The penalties provided for in part one of this Article shall be applied in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication.