This Law defines the legal, economic and organisational basis for the activities of subjects of relations in the field of energy-saving. It regulates relations related to the specifics of production, transmission, distribution and supply of electric and heating energy from co-generation units. The purpose of this Law is to create a legal basis for increasing the efficiency of fuel use. This Law regulates the relations arising in the field of energy-saving between owners of co-generation units and distribution system operators, irrespective of their form of ownership. The effect of this Law in terms of stimulating the use of Co-Generation units extends to units that were put into operation after the enactment of the Law. Financing of project development, purchase of technological equipment and construction of co-generation units is carried out at the expense of own and borrowed funds. Authorised persons of the owner (co-owner), investor of the co- generation unit are granted the right to access the territory, premises and equipment of energy facilities. The issue of licences and setting tariffs for heat generated by co- Generation units are carried out by the national commission for state regulation of energy and public utilities. Co-generation units are granted the right to unimpeded access to the local electricity grid and sale of electricity produced to individual consumers under contracts. Co-generation in municipal heat supply companies are maintained in the case of modernisation of these companies through the use of co- Generation units. The qualification of co-generation units is carried out by the central executive authority in the field of energy-saving following the procedure approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The qualification period is one year. Rules for connecting co- Generation units to the electricity grid are set by the national commission for state regulation of energy and public utilities. Rules for connecting co-generation units to the heat grid are set by the central executive authority in the field of heat supply. Ukraine participates in international co-operation in co- Generation and the use of secondary energy resources according to Ukrainian legislation and international agreements of Ukraine. The following laws of Ukraine shall be amended: 1) In the Law of Ukraine “On Energy-Saving” (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 1994, No. 30, Article 283): Article 3.