This Law defines the legal and organisational principles of transport and forwarding activities in Ukraine. It focuses on creating conditions for its development and improvement. The Law shall apply to the relations arising from the freight forwarding of goods by all means of transport, except pipeline. The provisions of this Law shall also apply to cases when the freight forwarder's duties are performed by the shipper. If an international treaty of Ukraine establishes regulations other than rules provided by this Law, the provisions of the international treaty shall apply. Transport and forwarding activities can be carried out by specialised enterprises (organisations) and other business entities. Under the legislation, freight forwarders may voluntarily organise themselves in associations, leagues, unions, etc. Freight forwarders provide services to clients in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian legislation and the countries through the territories of which goods are transported. Freight forwarding services are provided to the client during export from Ukraine, import to Ukraine, transit through the territory of Ukraine or other states. Under the agreement of freight forwarding, one party (forwarder) undertakes for a fee and at the expense of the other party (client) to perform or realise services specified in the agreement related to cargo carriage. ensure the implementation of a set of measures for the shipment of goods received in poor condition, defective, in damaged, fragile, non-standard packaging or in such packaging that does not meet the requirements of carriers. provide preparation and additional equipment of vehicles and goods. Foreign economic agreements (contracts) of freight forwarding must meet the requirements of the legislation on foreign economic activity. Long-term (general) transport forwarding agreements may be concluded for the systematic provision of freight forwarder services. The fact of providing the freight. forwarder's service during the transportation shall be confirmed by a single transport. document or a set of documents. Freight forwarder is obliged to provide freight forwarding services in accordance with the freight forwarding agreement and the client's instructions. The freight forwarder has the right to act at his sole discretion, notifying the client of his actions as soon as it is possible, only if it is not possible to inform about it in advance. The client is obliged in a timely manner to provide the freight forwarder with complete, accurate and reliable information on the name, quantity, quality and other characteristics of the cargo. The client is also obliged to pay the appropriate fee to the freightforwarder. Disputes in the field of freight forwarding are resolved in accordance with the law.