This Law determines the legal, organisational, socio-economic bases of the functioning of municipal electric transport of general use in the transport services market. It is aimed at creating favourable conditions for its development, meeting the needs of citizens for affordable, high quality, and safe transportation. This Law regulates the relations connected with the actions in the field of municipal electric transport in which the customers of transport services, carriers and passengers participate. Transport services are provided on a contractual basis between the carrier and the customer, taking into account: standards for providing service. Payment for transport services is made directly by passengers and the customers. The Rules for using municipal electric transport shall be approved by the relevant local authority. They determine the procedure of travel and its payment, rights and obligations of passengers, as well as the relationship of carries and passengers during the delivery of transport services. They take into account the peculiarities of transport infrastructure and the presence of an automated fare accounting system. Regulation of activities in the field of municipal electric transport and its development is carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The central executive authority ensures the formation and implementation of public policy in the fields of transport. Local authorities introduce an automated fare accounting system, establish the order for its functioning as well as forms of carriers. The main task of state control in the field of municipal electric transport is to ensure the provision of safe transport services. The state control over the technical condition of municipal Electric Transport facilities (except for the underground railway) is carried out by the central executive authority that ensures the implementation of public policy on land transport safety. Relations between the customers and the carriers are regulated in accordance with legislation. The volume and quality of transport services on routes (lines) according to the schedule, the value of passenger transport, responsibilities and rights of the parties, the order and terms of calculations, other conditions are determined by the contract on the organisation of the delivery of transport Services. The customer has the right to: control the quality of delivery of transport services. determine the volume of transport work, routes (lines) and indicators of the regularity of traffic, establish tariffs and the order of payment. For non-fulfilment of obligations stipulated by the contract, the customer is responsible according to the law and the contract. The carrier is responsible for: fulfilment of obligations on transportation of passengers according to the legislation and contract on the organisation of the delivery of transport services. The order of formation of tariff on services of municipal electric transport, which is approved by the central executive authority that ensure the component and implement the public policy in the field of transport. The Tram and Trolleybus Operating Rules, the Rules of Technical Operation of the Underground Railway shall be approved by the central executive authority. Renewal of rolling stock, as well as the objects of the municipal electric transport, shall be carried out at the expense of funds of the state and local budgets. This Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication. Within three months from the effective day of this Law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law. Local executive authority and local authority within the scope of its powers shall provide assistance to carriers in the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters.