Environmental network is one of the most important prerequisites for sustainable, ecologically balanced development of Ukraine. The task of the environmental network legislation is to regulate public relations in the field of development, preservation and rational, inexhaustible use of the network. The environmental network means a single territorial system created in order to improve conditions for the development and restoration of the environment. Environmental network object means an integral part of the environmental network that has a trace of a spatial object - certain area, boundaries, characteristics, etc. Structural elements of environmental network include key, connecting, buffer and renewable areas. Key areas ensure the preservation of the most valuable and typical regional components of landscape and biodiversity. Connecting territories (eco-corridors) connect key territories, provide animal migration and exchange of genetic material. Owners and users of territories and objects included in the environmental network have the right to apply to the executive authorities and local self-government bodies as for the proposals of financial support aimed at landscape and biodiversity conservation. Land plots with natural vegetative groups which were added to the Green Book of Ukraine; g) territories with some species of fauna and flora. Public administration in the field of formation, preservation and use of the environmental network is implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The powers of the Council of ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea include: a) participation in the development and implementation of the chart of formation. Local executive bodies and local self-government in the field of formation, preservation and use of the environmental network provide for elaboration and implementation of regional and local frameworks and programmes for the development of the environment network. Funding measures aimed at formation and preservation of environmental network funded through the State budget of Ukraine. Environmental network design is carried out by means of developing regional charts of environmental network formation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and regions. The consolidated chart of the environmental network of Ukraine is a component of the General chart for planning the territory of Ukraine, and it is approved by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. The list of key areas of the environmental network includes territories and objects of the nature reserve fund, wetlands of international importance, other territories within which the most valuable natural complexes have been preserved. The list of connecting territories of theEnvironmental Network includes areas that provide links between key areas and the integrity of the network. Financing of measures related to the formation, preservation and inexhaustible use of the environmental network may be carried out at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine, local budgets, enterprises, institutions and organisations. The regime of protection and use of buffer zones, of connecting and renewable territories of theEnvironmental Network shall be determined in accordance with the relevant chart of the Environmental Network. State supervision (control) over the formation, preservation and use of the environmental network is carried out by the central executive body. Citizens and their associations are involved in the discussion of drafts of environmental network charts and the state of their implementation. Public hearings may be held in the prescribed manner to discuss drafts ofEnvironmental network charts. President of Ukraine. prepare the proposals for amendments to the laws of Ukraine arising from this Law and submit them to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine for scrutiny. ensure the development and adoption of regulatory acts referred by this Law to its powers; bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law; ensure that ministries and other central executive authorities review and cancel their regulatory acts contrary to this Law.