Law of Ukraine approves the State Programme for Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to the Legislation of the European Union. The goal of adaptation of the Ukrainian legislation to the legislation of the EU is to achieve the compliance of the legal system of Ukraine with the criteria set by the EU. The Law shall enter into force on the day of its publication. Acquis communautaire (acquis) shall mean the legal system of the European Union. It includes legislative acts of the EU adopted within the European Community. It also includes Common Foreign and Security Policy and Cooperation in the Area of Justice and Home Affairs in the Enlargement Process. adaptation of legislation means the process of bringing the laws of Ukraine and other regulatory acts in line with acquis communauts. The state policy of Ukraine on the adaptation of legislation shall be shaped as a component of the legal reform in Ukraine. It shall aim at ensuring the unified approaches to legislative drafting, taking into account the requirements of the European Union legislation during the legislative drafting. It will also create proper conditions for institutional, technical and financial support. Adaptation of legislation is one of the key elements of co-operation between Ukraine and the European Union. The European Union welcomed the aspiration of Ukraine to develop a roadmap for the adaptation of legislation in priority areas. The State Council for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine was established by the Decree of the President of Ukraine No. 791 of 30 August 2002. The priority areas in which the Ukrainian legislation will be adapted shall be the areas determined by Article 51 of the PCA. Periods of subsequent stages of Programme implementation will be determined depending on the results achieved at the previous stages, economic, political and social situation in Ukraine, as well as the development of the relations between Ukraine and the EU. Programme determines the goal, main terms, institutional mechanism for adaptation of Ukrainian legislation, principles of financial, staffing and information support for the implementation thereof. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall ensure implementation of the Programme, except for the issues falling under the competence of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. An authority coordinating the work on Programme implementation shall be the competent central executive authority in the field of adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to the legislation of the European Union. approve the annual action plan on implementing the Programme after it is approved by the Committee of the Verkhovna Rada on Ukraine’s Integration into the EU. provide for expenditures on financing the measures on Programme Implementation in the draft State Budgets of Ukraine. Draft laws must be submitted to a competent central executive authority within three days for drawing up the findings on the compliance of such draft laws with acquis communautaire. Expert examination of the draft laws of Ukraine and other draft regulatory acts, which by their subject of legal regulation belong to the areas in which legal relations are regulated by the law of the European Union, must in all cases undergo expert examination. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall take measures on implementing the State Programme of Training, Re-Training and Professional Development of Specialists in the Field of European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine for 2004—2007. Information support for the Programme implementation shall be assigned to a competent central executive authority.