Under the Constitution of Ukraine, this Law governs relations related to freedom of movement and free choice of place of residence in Ukraine. This Law shall apply to citizens of Ukraine as well as foreigners and stateless persons who legally reside in Ukraine, in accordance with their rights and freedoms provided by the Constitution, laws or international treaties.  registration authority means the executive authority of a village, township or city council. Documents containing information on the place of residence mean passport of a citizen of Ukraine. Legal grounds for residing in Ukraine shall include: for citizens of Ukraine – the citizenship of Ukraine; for foreigners and stateless persons – grounds established by the Law of Ukraine “On the Legal Status of Foreigners and Stateless Persons” A citizen of Ukraine, as well as a foreigner or a stateless person, residing in Ukraine, permanently or temporarily shall register their place of residence. Parents or other legal representatives shall register the place of residences of a newborn child within three months from the date of state registration of the child's birth. Residence shall be registered only at one address. If a person resides in two or more places, they shall register the place of residence at one of these addresses at their own discretion. It is prohibited to demand from a person to submit documents other than those provided for in this Article for registration of residence. In case any false information about a person is identified in the register of territorial communities, the registration authority shall notify the person within thirty days from the date when such information was identified. Temporary residence of foreigners, stateless persons shall be registered and extended in accordance with the legislation on the legal status of foreigners and stateless people. Homeless persons and other persons with no permanent place of residence should be registered at the address of a specialised social institution, social service and social protection institution. De-registration may be carried out simultaneously with the registration of a new place of residence, taking into account the requirements specified in part 11, Article 6 of this Law. A person may instruct the relevant official of the apartment building (dormitory) service management (maintenance) providers, condominium association, housing co-operative, apartment building manager. The rules for the registration of residence, forms of documents required for this purpose, and the procedure for forwarding information to the Unified State Demographic Register by registration authorities shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The central executive authority in charge of. shaping the state policy in the field of registration of individuals shall: generalise. the practice of application of regulatory acts on the issues of registration. of residence. In case of registration of residence at the same time as de-registration of the previous residence, the administrative fee shall be charged only for one administrative service and shall be credited to the local budget at the new place of residence. The registration authority shall be the holder of the relevant register of the territorial community. Data from the registers of territorial communities may be used for statistical or scientific purposes, provided they are depersonalised. Registers shall be accessed solely upon authorisation, with the preservation of information about the officer or official who made the request, and the time of such a request. The exchange of information between the registration authorities and other public authorities, local governments shall be carried out with the written consent of the person. Free choice of residence shall be restricted in administrative and territorial units located: on the border area; on the territories of military facilities; in the zones belonging to the category of restricted access zones according to the law. The appeal of decisions on the issues of freedom of movement, free choice of place of residence, registration of permanent or temporary residence of a person may be appealed in the manner prescribed by law. L. KUCHMA - President of Ukraine. City of Kyiv - Prime Minister. President of the Republic of Crimea - President. Mayor of Kiev - Mayor of Kharkiv. Prime Minister of the Crimea - Mayor. President and Prime Minister, respectively, of Crimea and Kharkov.