This Law shall regulate actions related to state control over international transfers of military and dual-use goods. It aims to ensure the protection of Ukraine's national interests, observance of its international obligations regarding the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It also aims to prevent the use of these goods for terrorist and other illegal purposes. Transport shall mean transportation of goods from one to another foreign country through the territory of Ukraine. Military goods collectively or separately shall mean: armament, ammunition, military and special vehicles, special components for their production, explosives, as well as materials and equipment specially designed for the development, production or use of these products.  dual-use goods mean certain types of goods, equipment, materials, software and technologies specifically unappropriated for military use. Military ultimate use shall mean the use of any goods for development, manufacture, assembly, testing, repair, maintenance, modification, operation, storage, identification, acquisition of military goods. The conclusion can be one-time, general or open. It grants the right to temporarily import or export goods or their transit, conduct negotiations, related to entering into foreign economic agreements (contracts) on the international transfer of goods of military use or on the export of Goods of dual-use and other goods. Intermediary (brokerage) activity shall mean any actions of a business entity of Ukraine that contribute to the implementation of international transfers of military goods. International Import Certificate shall mean a document, issued by an authorised state body of the importing state, which confirms the obligation of the importer to import goods to his state. End-User Declaration shall mean document by which the ultimate customers determines the place and purpose of the end-use of goods. The legal basis of State Export Control is the Constitution of Ukraine, this and other laws of Ukraine. Public policy should be formed in accordance with the following principles: priority of the national interests of Ukraine -political, economic and military. obligation to exercise Ukraine's international obligations on the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Exercise of export control only to the extent necessary to achieve its goals. coordination of State Export Control procedures and rules with international legal norms and practices. ensuring cooperation with international organisations and foreign states. In order to strengthen international security and stability, including in order to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The central government body, implementing the public policy in the field of State Export Control has the right to receive free of charge from other executive authorities. The exchange of information related to international transfers of goods with the relevant authorities of other states and international organisations shall not contradict the legislation of Ukraine and its national interests. State Export Control is also exercised in relation to the export, import or temporary export of goods not included in the lists. Such goods are imported to the territory of Ukraine with the provision of an International Import Certificate at the request of the exporting state. Exports of such goods outside Ukraine shall be carried out to states in respect of which a full or partial embargo on the supply ofSuch goods was imposed by the United Nations Security Council. Examinations in the field of State Export Control shall be conducted by the central government body, implementing public policy. The main tasks of the examination are the following: assessment of the state of protection of national security interests, compliance with Ukraine's international obligations related to the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The procedure for conducting an examination in the field of export control shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The duration of the examination shall not exceed 30 days from the date of submission of all necessary documents to the central government body. Representatives of firms or organisations concerned with the opinion of theexamination shall not be appointed as experts. Business entities of Ukraine, state customers in the field of defence, which intend to implement international transfers of goods, shall be pre-registered as entities of international transfers. These entities shall submit information and documents necessary for the preliminary examination of goods to the central government body. Based on the results of the examination, the body identifies goods, determines the conditions of their international transfers to specific countries. The central government body, implementing public policy in the field of State Export Control grants legal entities the authority to carry out activities on preliminary identification of goods. The term of consideration of applications and decision-making on issuance or refusal to issue a certificate of the legal entity is 45 business days from the date of receipt of all necessary documents. State customers in the field of defence shall be authorised to import military goods and goods that contain classified information. Creation of a system of internal export control is mandatory for the entity of international transfers of goods. The procedure for attestation shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The permit or conclusion shall be issued by the central government body. Single permission or conclusion can be issued to a foreign business entity or subject for other activity, conducting the international transfer of goods of dual-use in accordance with international treaties of Ukraine, concluded on behalf of Ukraine or the Government of Ukraine. The term of consideration of applications and decision-making on issuance or refusal to issue permissions or conclusions shall be established depending on the category of goods. Term of consideration of applications and decision-making on issuance or refusal to issue permissions or conclusions shall not exceed 90 days from the date of receipt of all necessary documents. 45 days - for export (re-export) of military goods; 30 days -. for export of dual-use goods and temporary export (import) of any goods; 15 days. - for import and transit of goods, as well as temporary export or. import of goods for demonstration at exhibitions, fairs. If application for a permit, conclusion or International Import Certificate is left without consideration, the central government body, implementing public policy in the field of State Export Control shall notify the applicant of justification within three days from the date of such decision made. Central government body ensures storage of applications of entities of international transfers of goods or entities specified in the part three, Article 15 of this Law. Open information about the following documents shall be submitted to the single state information web portal “Single Window for International Trade” in the form of electronic documents certified by electronic digital signature on the day of issuance of such documents. Name (type) of the document, by whom it was issued (body, institution, organisation), security level, date of issue, registration number. State Export Control over the fulfilment by ultimate customers in Ukraine of obligations to use imported goods for the stated purposes shall be carried out based on analysis of reports of business entities - ultimate customers on the actual use of goods. Inspection with the participation of representatives of foreign exporters and/or competent state authorities of the exporting state of actual use. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall establish the procedure for providing warranties and exercising state control over the fulfilment of obligations to use goods, subject to State Export Control. The basis for the application of such a procedure is the definition in interstate or intergovernmental agreement of specific names of goods, as well as their exporters and ultimate customers. The entity of international transfers of goods must submit to the central government body, implementing the public policy in the field of State Export Control, written reports on the actual export and import of goods specified in these documents. The form of the report and the terms for its submission shall be determined by thecentral government body. Violations of legislative requirements in the field of State Export Control are following. In case of availability of sufficient information about the intention to commit or about the commission by established or unidentified persons of criminal offences, the subject of which are goods subject to State Export control, the central government body, implementing public policy, shall inform the relevant bodies of pre-trial investigation.  failure to submit or late submission to the central government body, implementing public policy in the field of State Export Control of reports and relevant documents on the results of negotiations referred to in paragraph eight of this article, as well as on the actual export and import of goods by virtue of permits, conclusions or International Import Certificates, and on the use of these goods for the stated purposes; creating obstacles to the performance of official duties by officials. Failure to comply with the lawful requirements of these persons; unreasonable refusal to provide information and documents required. The central executive authority, implementing state policy in the field of State Export Control can impose fines in the amount of 500 non-taxable minimum incomes. In addition to imposing the fines specified in this Article, the central government body can revoke or suspend the permit, conclusion or International Import Certificate issued to such entity for international transfers of goods. The state shall not be liable to the entity of international transfers of goods for losses which it can suffer as a result of revocation or suspension of the permit, conclusion or International Import Certificate. Such actions arise from the need to ensure the protection of national interests or compliance with Ukraine's international obligations regarding the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The fine shall be paid by the entity of international transfers of goods within fifteen days from the date of its imposition. In case of non-payment of the fine within the specified term, it shall be collected by the state executor in the manner prescribed by law. The decision to impose a fine in cases of violations provided for by this Law can be appealed in court. Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall submit to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals on bringing the laws of Ukraine in line with this Law. 3. Review and cancel their regulatory acts contrary to this Law; ensure that ministries and other central executive authorities review and cancel them. No. 549-IV, 20 February 2003