This Law defines the legal, economic, and organisational framework for the state regulation of innovation activities in Ukraine. It establishes the forms of encouraging the innovation processes by the state and is aimed at supporting the development of the Ukrainian economy through innovation. State support shall be provided to the economic entities of all forms of ownership that implement innovation projects in Ukraine and to enterprises that have the status of innovative ones. The legislation of Ukraine in the field of innovation activities is based on the Constitution of Ukraine. The main purpose of the state innovation policy shall be creating socio-economic, organisational and legal conditions for effective reproduction, development and use of the scientific and technical potential of the country. Subjects of innovation activities may be individuals and (or) legal entities of Ukraine, individuals of foreign states, persons without citizenship, associations of such entities, who perform innovation activities in Ukraine. The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall define the unified state policy in the field of innovation Activities. Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall: exercise public administration and ensure the implementation of state policy in the field of innovation activities. Control the financing of local innovation programmes from the local budget through the state innovation financial and credit institutions (their regional offices) Control the activities of the municipal innovationFinancial and Credit institutions. The central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of scientific-technical and innovation activities shall: prepare proposals for determining the priority directions of innovation activity development; organise forecast and analytical studies of the trends of innovation-driven development; perform state registration of innovation projects and maintain the State Register of Innovation Projects. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administrations, executive local government authorities in theField of Innovation activities. Executive local government authorities within their competence shall: develop projects for the local innovation programmes and submit them to the appropriate local councils for approval. Involve enterprises, institutions and organisations located in their subordinate territories, with their consent, in solving the problems of innovation-driven development of the localities. Entrust the state innovation financial and credit institutions (their regional offices) to conduct a competitive selection of innovation projects. The state control in the field of innovation activities shall be carried out by the central executive authority. An innovation project is a project that provides for the development, production and sale of an innovative product. The state support of the implementation of the innovation project stipulated by this Law shall be provided on the condition of its state registration. The central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of innovation activities shall maintain the State Register of Innovation Projects. The Certificate of state registration of an innovation project shall be valid for seven years from the date of its issue. After completion of this period, the state registration and the corresponding entry in the State Register of Innovation Projects shall be cancelled. The specific aspects of an examination and state registration. of innovation projects that are subject to the provisions of the Law of Ukraine “On State Secret” shall be defined. An innovative product shall be the result of an innovation project and scientific and research and (or) development of new technology. Products that meet the following requirements may be recognised as innovative. The decision to qualify a product as an innovative one shall be made by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of innovation activities. The subjects of innovation activities may be provided with financial support for the implementation of innovation projects. Financial support for innovation activities at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine, the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local budgets shall be provided within the funds provided for by the relevant budgets. The State innovation financial and credit institution may provide at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine the financial support, the types of which are provided for in Article 17 of this law, to the subjects of innovation activities for the implementation of innovation projects. The funds from the return of loans issued by a State innovationFinancial and Credit institution to the Subjects of Innovation Activities shall be used to provide financial innovation support unless otherwise stipulated. A subject of innovation activity, the innovation project of which has passed competitive selection, may receive one or more types of financial support provided for in Article 17 of this Law. The financial support by a State innovation financial and credit institution for innovation projects by administrating loans or leasing property shall be provided subject to guarantees of return of funds. The funds of the municipal innovation financial and credit institution formed from the attracted domestic and foreign investments of individuals and legal entities, voluntary contributions of legal entities and individuals, from their own or joint financial and economic activities and other sources not prohibited by the legislation of Ukraine. To receive financial support, subjects of innovation activities whose innovation projects are listed in the State Register. This Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication, except for part 3 of Article 16, Articles 21 and 22. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within six months from the day of publication of this Law, shall bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law. The amendments to the laws of Ukraine provided for in Clause 3 of Section VII “Final Provisions” shall enter in force on 1 January 2003.