This Law shall define the principles of organisation and operation of road transport. It defines the following key terms: automated accounting system of fare payment, bus, automobile, bus station, intercity bus route, international bus route. It also defines bus station as a complex of buildings, structures, parking lots and entrances.  road carrier is an individual or legal entity that transports passengers or (and) cargos by vehicles on a commercial basis or at its own expense. A self-employed automobile carrier transports passengers by taxi without using the work of hired drivers. cargo terminal (autoport) is a complex of buildings and structures equipped with loading facilities aimed to perform cargo.  work experience is a period of activity of a business entity-road carrier, calculated from the beginning of economic activity. In case of termination of road carrier-legal entity by means of reorganisation (merger, inclusion, division, transformation), the newly created legal entity (newly created legal entities) shall gain the experience of its work. Passenger transportation is a transportation of passengers by cars or buses. Passport of the route is a document containing a route diagram, schedule, fare table, schedules for the working and rest modes of drivers, etc. dangerous cargo – substances, materials, products, wastes of industrial and other activities and containers from them. Passenger or cargo transportation service is a transportation of passengers or cargo by vehicles on contractual terms with the customer of the service for a fee. Regular passenger transportation is a transport of certain categories of passengers on a bus route under the conditions defined by the route passport. patrol inspection is a check of the vehicles of a business entity on the route at any time. General appointment vehicle is a vehicle that is not equipped with special devices and is charged by to transport the passengers or cargos. Specialised vehicle is appointed to perform the transportation of certain categories of passengers. Third countries are any other countries regarding the country of non-resident and resident. Authorities of contracting parties are state authorities of contracting party defined by the legislation. The main task of government regulation and control in the field of road transport is to create conditions for safe, high-quality and efficient transportation of passengers and cargos. Road transport uses transport lands and other land in accordance with land legislation. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, acting within own mandate, shall provide general government regulation of road Transport activity. Central executive authority, ensuring the implementation of state policy on land transport safety, local executive authorities and local authorities shall carry out discharging state policy in the field of road transport. Regulatory acts of the central executive authority are binding on the territory of Ukraine. State control over the execution by carriers the requirements of international treaties of Ukraine on international road transport; carrying out technical investigation of catastrophes, accidents, road accidents. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and regional state administrations shall form a network of public bus routes. The central executive authority, ensuring the implementation of state policy on safety in land transport in the field of international road transport on the territory of Ukraine, shall carry out the following. All vehicles of Ukrainian and foreign carriers providing road transportation of passengers and cargos on the territory of Ukraine are subject to state control. State control of road carriers is carried out by means of conducting scheduled, unscheduled and patrol inspections (roadside inspections) The state control authority shall notify in writing the road carrier to be inspected no later than 10 calendar days prior to the scheduled inspection. On international public bus routes – on the central executive authority, ensuring the component and implementation of state policy in the field of transport. on intercity and suburban publicbus routes that extend beyond the territory of the region (interregional routes), – on district state administrations. on public city bus routes - on the executive authority of the village, urban village, city council of the respective locality. A license to provide services for the international transportation of passengers or dangerous cargo entitles the road carrier to provide internal transportation. The provision of socially significant road transport services is carried out in accordance with the legislation on the supply of products for state needs. The development of road transport by agreement with other central executive authorities shall take place. The Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional, Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils approve regional programs of road transport development. The programs determine the development of the network of public bus routes, in the relevant territory and its infrastructure. Road transport staff include employees who directly provide services for the transportation of passengers or cargos. Labour relations of road transport staff are regulated by labour legislation, as well as by the provisions on discipline and internal labor regulations. Training, retraining, certification and recurrent training of drivers for road vehicles is provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The procedure for state registration of vehicles is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Registered cars, which are equipped for work as a taxi and are used in accordance with the information provided by the licensee, are not subject to state re-registration. Buses equipped with control devices (tachographs) for registration of work and rest modes of drivers are allowed for transportation of passengers by buses at night. Vehicles with documents confirming their compliance with the requirements for traffic safety and environmental safety of the countries on the territory of which the entry is provided are admitted to the international transportation of passengers and cargo. The design and technical condition of vehicles used during the performance of international transportation must meet the requirements of the legislation of Ukraine and a foreign state. Maintenance and repair works are performed by the staff of the required level of professional qualification according to the types of these works. Requirements to the executor of maintenance and repair of vehicles and services provided by him (performed works) are defined by the regulations on confirmation of conformity, approved in the manner prescribed by legislation. The contract on maintenance and repair of vehicle shall be concluded in accordance with the requirements of civil law between customer and executor. The executor under the contract can not propose to the customer under this contract any additional paid services, during its conclusion or execution. The customer has the right to: receive valid information about the subject of the contract and its executor; provide personal visual control (or direct to person authorised by him) over the execution of the work. Bus stations shall provide the following: arrival and departure of buses and passengers; organisation of ticket sale to people; dispatching control and regulation of bus traffic. Owners of bus stations can provide reorientation of the bus stations only in case of all public bus routes closure, passing through them and with consent of local authority in locality. The road carrier, providing the transportation of passengers on contractual terms, is obliged to: ensure staff observance of the requirements of road transport legislation. keep vehicles in proper technical and sanitary conditions, ensure their intime submission for boarding and departure of passengers. cancel the travel of vehicles in case of threat to the lives of passengers or the safety of cargo. The relations between road carrier, performing the transportation of passengers on metropolitan, suburban and intercity public bus routes are defined by the contract on the organisation of passenger transportation on the public bus route. Central executive authority, ensuring the component and implementation of state policy in the field of transport shall define the form of permit, procedure of its issuance and cancellation. Legal entity is a road carrier, performing the transportation of cargo on contractual terms. Road carrier is liable: to execute the requirements of this Law and other legislative and regulatory acts on Ukraine in the sphere of transportation of passengers and/or cargo. Road carriers with a quantity of vehicles of ten or more are obliged to organise recurrent training. Bus routes are divided into: metropolitan, suburban, intercity, international. It is allowed to transport standing passengers by buses on suburban and metropolitan routes. The transportation of passengers on international and intercity routes is allowed with the obligatory provision of seats. The rules of output of road transport services are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Bus stations provide passengers with services, connected with the travel on public bus route, and road carriers, performing passenger transportation on contractual terms. Obligatory services that shall be provided by bus stations to road carrier, shall include the following: selling of tickets; organisation of arrival and departure of bus from the equipped platforms; informing the driver regarding the road traffic conditions for the route. The maximum number of children and accompanying persons during the transportation by bus, shall not exceed the number of seats in it. Experienced drivers of vehicles who have bus driving experience for at least five years, shall provide the transportation of groups of children. The procedure of organisation of children group transportation is defined by the Rules for the output of passenger road transport services and other regulatory acts. Documents for legal entity performing the transportation of passengers by ordered cars: for road carrier – license, contract with the customer of services, other documents, provided by the legislation of Ukraine. The documents for the driver of a legal entity for the transport of passengers. by cars for their own needs are driving licence of relevant category, certificate on vehicle registration. Article 40. Basic rights and responsibilities of driver of the bus, taxi, ordered car, car when transporting passengers. A driver of a bus is obliged to execute the rules for the output of services of public passenger transport and technical operation of the bus. Bus driver is forbidden to: change the route and schedule; sell the tickets to the passengers while driving a bus. Taxi driver has a right to refuse to passenger in services provision, in the following cases: the passenger has obvious signs of intoxication. The driver of an ordered car is obliged to execute the rules for the output of services of passenger road transport. The driver of the car is not allowed to bring about the parking and boarding of passengers at the taxi stand. The contract on irregular passenger transportation by bus shall be concluded between the customer of transport services and the road carrier. The contract on passenger transportation by road transport shall be terminated at the initiative of the road carrier or the driver of the vehicle, in case the passenger: is in a state of alcohol or drug intoxication. Reasonable structure of bus fleet working on the public route, by passenger capacity, class, technical and environmental indicators, is defined by executive authorities and local authorities. Road carriers are not allowed to participate in the tender in the following cases: are declared bankrupts or a bankruptcy or liquidation case has been initiated regarding them as business entities. Road carriers must lawfully use a sufficient number of certified buses of the appropriate class and meet the requirements, defined in the Article 34 of this Law. Road carrier shall submit the following documents to the tender committee in order to participate in the tender for the transportation of passengers on a public bus route: the application of the applicant with the established sample indicating the route of the bus of public use on which the applicant has intent to operate. Provision of finance is performed by the executive authorities and local authorities at the expense of funds contributed by applicants. Road carriers and drivers have to possess and present to the persons, authorised to bring about control on road transport and in the field of road safety, the documents by virtue of which they carry out the transportation of cargo. Management of the production facility shall approve the rules of technology cargo transportation by vehicles. The driver of the vehicle is obliged to: possess and transmit the documents, provided by the legislation to carry out specified transportation. Contract on cargo transportation by road transport is concluded between the customer and executor in writing (contract, invoice, receipt, etc) in accordance with the civil law. The essential terms of the contract are the following: name and location of the parties; name and quantity of cargo, its packaging; terms and period of transportation. Residents of Ukraine who have work experience of internal transportation on contractual terms for not less than three years are allowed to provide international transportation of passengers and dangerous goods. Residents of Ukraine while performing the internation transportation of cargo, shall possess the following: permits of foreign countries on the territory of which the transportation will be carried out. Drivers of vehicles that belong to residents or non-residents of Ukraine are obliged to allow officials of the central executive authority, ensuring the implementation of state policy on safety at land transport to carry our the verification of tachographs. Central executive authority shall provide international cooperation in the sphere of international transportation of passengers and cargos. Regular, irregular and shuttle movement international road transportation, performed by the carriers of Ukraine, shall be carried out by buses that meet the requirements of the transportation and comfort parameters and have more than 20 seats for passengers. The drivers have to possess the lists of passengers and other documents, stipulated by the legislation of Ukraine during the international irregular, shuttle movement and regular transit transportation. The residents of Ukraine, carring out international transportation of passengers and cargos and (or) specialists, appointed by them to be in charge of organisation and safety of transportation, have to possess the document, certifying their qualification. The requirements for professional qualification according to volume and level of training shall provide for the possession of sufficient knowledge in order to engage in professional activity. The residents of Ukraine are allowed to carry out international transportation of passengers and (or) cargos in case they passed indispensable written examination for professional suitability. The right to drive buses on international routes is granted to drivers working as bus drivers within three last years. Administrative and economic fines shall be applied to carriers for the violation of the law on road transport. Violation of the law on road transport, provided by paragraphs 14–16, part 1 of this Article, can be recorded automatically in the manner defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Officials of the central executive authority, ensuring the implementation of the state policy on land transport safety, shall have the right to consider cases on imposition of administrative and economic fines for violations specified in this article. While commiting two or more offences by one person, administrative andEconomic fine is imposed for each offence separately. Administrative and economic fines are imposed in accordance with the law by the central executive authority. Road toll for vehicles and other self-propelled cars and mechanisms, the weight or dimensional parameters of which exceed the normative parameters, is credited to the state road fund. Road carrier and self-employed road carrier shall bear the responsibility provided by law for non execution of the obligation to verify before the start of passenger international road transportation the presence of passenger documents. 5 April 2001No. 2344-III. President of Ukraine. L. KUCHMA. City of Kyiv, Ukraine. President and L.K. Kuchma. City and State. President's Office. President’s Office. City, State, Kyiv. President, President.