This Law defines the legal content of citizenship of Ukraine, the grounds and procedure for its acquisition and termination. It also defines the powers of state authorities involved in resolving issues of citizenship. The procedure for appealing decisions on issues of Citizenship of Ukraine is also included in the Law. The Law is based on the Constitution of Ukraine. Obligation to Terminate Foreign Citizenship - a written statement of a foreigner that in the event of acquiring citizenship of Ukraine he/she will terminate the citizenship of another state or citizenship (nationality) of other states. Document on termination of citizenship ( nationality) within the time limit established by the legislation of a foreign state. The legislation of Ukraine on citizenship is based on the following principles: 1) single citizenship - citizenship of the state of Ukraine, which excludes the possibility of the existence of citizenship of administrative-territorial units of Ukraine. If a citizen of Ukraine has acquired citizenship (nationality) of another state or states, then in legal relations with Ukraine, he/she is recognised solely as a citizen. Citizens of Ukraine are: 1) all citizens of the former USSR who at the time of the declaration of independence of Ukraine (24 August 1991) were permanently residing on the territory of Ukraine. The persons specified in Paragraph 1, part first of this Article are deemed as citizens of Ukraine since 24 August 1991. A person whose parents or one of the parents were citizens of Ukraine at the time of his/her birth should be deemed a Ukraine citizen. A person born outside of Ukraine to stateless persons who were permanently legally residing on the territory of Ukraine and had not acquired the citizenship of another state by birth. A person who himself/herself or at least one of his parents, grandfather or grandmother, sibling (full or half), son or daughter, or grandchild was born or resided permanently until 24 August 1991 in the territory that became the territory of Ukraine, should be registered as a citizen of Ukraine. Foreigners who are citizens (patrials) of several states shall submit an obligation to terminate the citizenship of all these states. A child who was born on the territory of Ukraine after 24 August 1991 and did not acquire citizenship of Ukraine by birth and was a stateless person or a foreigner should be registered as a citizen of Ukraine at the request of one of its legal representatives. Foreigners being citizens (patrials) of multiple states shall submit an obligation to terminate these states' citizenship. Foreigners who have been granted refugee status in Ukraine or asylum in Ukraine, instead of the obligation to terminate their foreign citizenship, shall submit a declaration on the renunciation of foreign citizenship. Foreigners who are citizens (patrials) of the states, the legislation of which provides for automatic termination of the citizenship (nationality) of these states at the same time as acquiring the citizenship of another state, or where the international treaties of Ukraine imply the termination of these citizenship. The period of lawful continuous residence in the territory of Ukraine established for the persons, who have been granted refugee status in Ukraine or asylum in Ukraine, shall be three years after granting them refugee status. For those who have arrived in Ukraine as stateless persons - three years upon their entry in Ukraine. This requirement shall not apply to physically handicapped persons. The citizenship of Ukraine shall not be granted to a person, who: 1) has committed a crime against humanity or genocide; 2) is sentenced to deprivation of liberty in Ukraine for commitment of serious or particularly serious crime (until cancellation or eradication of conviction); 3) has perpetrated an act in the territory of another state that is recognised as a serious orparticularly serious crime by the legislation of Ukraine. The date of acquirement of the citizenship of Ukraine is the date of publication of the relevant decree of the President of Ukraine. A foreigner who has been granted refugee status in Ukraine or asylum in Ukraine, shall submit a declaration on renunciation of foreign citizenship. The obligation to terminate foreign citizenship shall not be required for the citizens (patrials) of states, the legislation of which provides for automatic termination. Citizenship of Ukraine shall not be renewed for those persons, who have lost the citizenship of Ukraine due to its acquisition by fraud, deliberate submission of false information or false documents. A child who is a foreigner or a stateless person and who is adopted by citizens of Ukraine or by spouses one of which is the citizen of Ukraine and the other is aStateless person. A child, who is a foreigner or a stateless person, and guardianship or trusteeship of whom has been established, shall become a citizen of Ukraine since the adoption of the decision. Article 13. Acquisition of the Citizenship of Ukraine by a Person Recognised Incapable by the Court due to Establishment of Guardianship of such Citizen of Ukraine. A foreigner or a stateless person, who resides lawfully in Ukraine and is recognized incapable by the court, shall acquire the citizenship of Ukraine since the entry into force of the decision on establishment of guardianship. In case of recognition of paternity of a child, whose mother is a foreigner or stateless, provided the child's father was a citizen of Ukraine, the child shall be registered as a citizen. In case of establishment of the fact of maternity of a child, whose father is a foreigner or stateless person, provided child's mother was a citizen of Ukraine, the child shall acquire the citizenship of Ukraine regardless of the place of his/her birth and place of permanent residence. If recognition of paternity or maternity took place after the child has reached full age, such person being stateless shall acquire Ukraine citizenship. A citizen of Ukraine, who is a person permanently residing abroad in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine may withdraw the citizenship of Ukraine by his/her application. If one of a child's parents has left for permanent residence abroad together with his/hers child and withdraws the citizenship, the child also may withdraw. A child adopted by foreigners or stateless persons may withdraw Ukraine by application. Withdrawal from the citizenship of Ukraine of children aged 14 to 18 could take place with their consent only. Withdrawal should not be allowed if person applying for withdrawal was notified of suspicion in committing a criminal offense or is convicted in Ukraine by a final court judgment that came into force and should be executed. A citizen of Ukraine who has submitted an application for withdrawal from the citizenship of Ukraine, or in respect of whom the loss of citizenship is being formalized, shall implement all the rights and shall bear all the obligations until the decree of the President of Ukraine on the termination of the citizenship will be issued. In cases specified by this Article, the date of termination of citizenship of. Ukraine shall be thedate of issue of a relevant decree by the President. The President of Ukraine on Citizenship has the power to revoke within its powers decisions to formalize the acquisition of citizenship of Ukraine. The central executive authority implementing state policy on citizenship shall exercise powers provided for by part first of this Article in relation to persons residing in the territory of Ukraine, according to Article 25 of this Law. 1) receive applications along with the necessary documents in regard to granting the citizenship of Ukraine to persons who have rendered exceptional services to Ukraine. 2) verify the correctness of their form, the existence of preconditions for granting to the citizenship and the absence of grounds preventing a person from being admitted. 3) forward them along with conclusion for consideration of the Presidential Commission on Citizenship. 4) prepare submissions on the loss of the Citizenship of Ukraine by persons. Appeals against citizenship issues may be appealed before the court according to procedure established by law. Appeals against Acts or Inaction of Officials and Officers Breaching the Procedure for Considering of Citizenship Cases can be appealed both administratively and judicially. Officials and officers who have violated this Law shall be liable under the procedure provided by laws of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine shall be recommended to bring his acts into conformity with this Law. prepare and submit for consideration to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals on bringing the laws of Ukraine in line with this law. ensure that central executive authorities bring their regulatory acts in line. with the Law.