This Law defines the legal and organisational framework for carrying out the architectural activity. It is aimed at shaping a favourable living environment, achieving aesthetic expressiveness, economic viability and reliability of buildings, structures and their complexes. The law defines architectural activity as the creative process of searching for an architectural solution and its implementation. Design approval is the procedure for establishing the compliance of design solutions with the initial design data; examination is the activity of specialist experts who have the appropriate qualification certificates. Technical supervision is the customer's control over the observance of design solution and construction norms and regulations. Self-regulatory organisations in the field of architectural activity are non-profit voluntary associations of individuals. The Constitution of Ukraine includes the laws of Ukraine “On the Principles of Town Planning”, ‘On Regulation of City Planning Activity’ and other regulatory acts. Regulatory aspects of architectural activity within the exclusion zone and the zone of the unconditional (compulsory) evacuation of the territory exposed to radioactive contamination due to the Chornobyl disaster are determined by Law of Ukraine. Architectural and town planning competitions (local, regional, all?Ukrainian, international) are held to identify the best architectural and space-planning, engineering and technical and economic design proposals regarding town planning objects and architectural works. The need to hold such competitions is determined according to requirements of the town planning legislation. An architect who has the appropriate qualification certificate must be involved in the examination of the architectural solution. Amendments to the approved design are made only with the consent of the author of the design, and in case of deviation from the technical specifications. The architect as the design author or the person authorised by them participates in the commissioning of the completed construction architectural work. Design and technical supervision is carried out during the construction of the architectural work. Technical supervision is provided by the customer and carried out by persons who have a qualification certificate. The authorised town planning and architectural authorities include: the central executive authority in charge of shaping state policy in the field of architecture; the executive authority of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Local governments carry out their activities in the field of town planning and architecture under the Law of Ukraine “On Local Self-Government in Ukraine”. Chief architects and other officials of designated town planning. and architectural authorities participate in the development of town. planning documentation of the respective territory as authors or co-authors. Non-profit voluntary associations of individuals and legal entities carrying out business and professional activities acquire the status of self-regulatory organisations. The central executive authority in charge of shaping state policy in the field of architecture defines the procedure for the registration of such organisations. Professional certification of contractors (service providers) related to the creation of architectural works is carried out. Citizens can submit other documents confirming their professional specialisation, level of knowledge and qualifications. Application for admission to professional certification and submitted documents are considered within ten business days of the date of its receipt. Citizens who have passed the professional certification are issued an appropriate qualification certificate. The qualification certificate is issued based on the decision to issue a qualification certificate by making an entry. Decisions on admission/refusal of admission to professional certification are made using the Unified State Electronic System in the field of construction. Citizens who have received the appropriate qualification certificate have a personal seal and are responsible for improper performance of works (provision of services) The validity of the qualification certificate for persons who have not had a break in activity in their field for more than three years is not limited. The procedure for paying the fee for professional certification and its amount are approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping state policy in the field of architecture. The procedure for deprivation of a qualification certificate is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Carrying out the architectural activity by individuals and legal entities of Ukraine on the territory of foreign countries. The architect has the right to: develop project proposals for the development of any land without prior permission to determine the possibility and conditions of construction of an architectural work on it. Contractors for the design and construction of the architectural work have theright to: choose at their discretion the technology, methods and way of development and implementation of the project. Citizens and non-governmental organisations have the right to receive information on planning, building and reconstruction of settlements, particular territories and specific architectural works. The procedure for public discussion of town planning documentation and construction projects is determined by law. The architect, other designers who carry out works on the creation of architectural works shall adhere to norms and rules. Owners and users of architectural works shall: keep the buildings and structures, as well as the land plots assigned to them, in proper condition, provide routine inspection, periodic inspection and certification of the work. If changes to the spatial, planning and other solutions of the architectural work are required – develop appropriate design documentation, approve it and carry out construction work in the manner prescribed by law. Co-authors may not be persons who provide technical, consulting or organisational assistance to the author of the architectural work. Property rights to an architectural work as a copyright object made to order belong to the creator of this work or the customer jointly, unless otherwise established by the agreement. Re-use of such a design and working documentation developed on its basis is carried out only with the consent of the author. Personal non-property rights to the architectural work as a copyright object belong to its author (co-authors), regardless of the terms of the agreement (contract) between the author and the customer. Liability for violating the legislation on architectural activity entails disciplinary, administrative, civil or criminal liability under the laws of Ukraine. Disputes arising in the course of architectural activity are resolved in the manner prescribed by law.