This Law shall define the principles of advertising activities in Ukraine. It will regulate relations arising in the process of production, dissemination and consumption of advertising. The following definitions shall apply: advertising producer – a person who fully or partially performs the production of advertising; internal advertising – advertisements placed inside buildings, structures, including cinemas and theatres. Advertising – the information about a person or goods, disseminated in any form and by any means, and is aimed at the development or maintenance of advertising consumer awareness. Advertising on transport – advertisements placed on territories of public transport utilities, metro stations, exteriors and interiors of vehicles and structures. The use of objects of copyright and (or) allied rights in advertising shall be carried out following the requirements of the legislation of Ukraine on copyright and allied rights. In television broadcasting, it shall be prohibited to submit any advertising information, provided in the form of voice-over narration and/or accompanying sound, about the sponsor. TV sales broadcasting in the form of a special programme and/or broadcasting (teleshopping) by broadcasting channels that are not specialised in TV sales shall have the continuous minimum duration of 15 minutes. The language of advertising shall be the state language. The peculiarities of using languages of indigenous peoples and national minorities of Ukraine in advertising are established. 2) set forth statements that discriminate against a person’s origin, social and property status, race and nationality, sex, education, political conviction, religious beliefs, language, occupation, place of residence. 3) submit data or call upon actions that may result in the breach of legislation. 4) use means and technologies that affect the subconsciousness of advertising consumers. 5) make discriminatory statements against persons who do not consume the advertised goods. Advertising disseminators shall not distribute advertising if according to the legislation advertised types of activities or goods, their production or sale requires the availability of the relevant permit or licence. The placement of advertising and/or advertising means on supporting, support members and other elements of the overhead contact system, on means and equipment (including supports) of the external lighting, shall be prohibited. Advertising in television and radio broadcastings, programmes shall be clearly separated from other programmes, broadcastings at their beginning and ending by acoustic, visual and combined means. The informational, author’s or editorial material that draws attention to a specific person or goods, shall be considered as advertising. Unfair advertising shall be prohibited. Any person shall have the right to be an advertiser of social advertising. The responsibility for unlawful comparison in advertising and non-compliance with the requirements for the contents of comparative advertising established by the legislation shall be imposed on the advertiser. Advertising of national films shall be put on the same footing as social advertising and be placed and disseminated. Mass media – advertising disseminators that are fully or partially financed from the state or local budgets shall grant benefits for the placement of social advertising by a customer represented by institutions of education, culture, health protection and charitable organisations. It shall be prohibited to interrupt for the purpose of advertising the broadcastings of the sessions of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, official state events and ceremonies. A TV and radio company shall bear responsibility for the fulfilment of requirements for the procedure of placement and dissemination of advertising in broadcastings and programmes. Presenters, narrators and other participants of informational and analytical broadcastings, programmes shall be prohibited to cite the consuming properties of goods and/or bank accounts. The placement of external advertising in inhabited localities shall be performed based on permits issued by executive authorities of the rural, village, municipal councils. It shall be prohibited to disseminate advertising with the use of telex or facsimile communications. External advertising on territories, buildings and structures shall be placed by consent of their owners or bodies (persons) authorised by them. The list of restrictions and prohibitions related to the placement of external advertising provided by this Law shall be comprehensive. It shall be prohibited to place external advertising means: on foot-paths and alleys; in inhabited localities, at the height of less than 5 metres above the pavement surface if their advertising area stands proud of the traffic way verge. It shall be prohibited to interrupt for advertising purposes the show of feature and documentary films in cinemas, video saloons and other places. Advertising shall not imply the possibility of purchasing advertised goods, designed mainly for children, by every family without consideration for its budget capacity. Advertising of medicines, medical equipment, methods of prevention, diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation shall contain. Advertising of medicines, medical equipment, methods of prevention, diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation shall not contain references to therapeutic effects with regard to diseases that are not or hardly curable. Warning text to read as follows: “Self-treatment can be harmful to your health”, occupying at least 15 per cent of the advertising area. It shall be prohibited in advertising to submit information suggesting that the medicine is an edible, cosmetic or other consumer product. In advertising of goods and methods that do not belong to medicines, medical equipment, methods of prevention, diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation as well as in advertising of food substances for the special diet consumption. Advertising of a drug product for veterinary use shall clearly specify that it is aimed at encouraging supplies, sales, dissemination, prescription and use of the veterinary drug product. Advertising of medicated feeds and intermediate products of such feeds, except for cases when such advertising is intended solely for veterinary professionals, shall be prohibited. Advertising of tobacco products, trademarks for goods and services, other intellectual property rights under which tobacco products are produced shall be prohibited. Advertising of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products will be prohibited on goods and in printed publications designed primarily for persons under 18 years of age or in parts of other printed publications intended for specified persons. Smoking and alcohol consumption shall not be an important factor for being successful in sports, social, sexual and other spheres of life. Advertising of any goods or services shall not contain images of tobacco products or the process of smoking tobacco products. shall not make an opinion that alcohol or tobacco products have therapeutic effects or that they are stimulating remedies or sedatives; shall not encourage consuming alcoholic beverages or smoking tobacco. shall be prohibited by means of depicting tobacco products, trademarks for goods and services under which tobacco products are produced on any other goods. Advertising of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages as well as trademarks for goods and services, other intellectual property rights under which such products and beverages are produced shall be accompanied with following warnings: “Smoking may cause cancer”, “Alcohol abuse causes damage to your health” Each warning shall be given at least 15 per cent of the total area of advertising. It shall be prohibited in advertising of gambling to involve persons under 21 years of age, including photo models. Advertising of gambling as well as trademarks for goods and services, other intellectual property rights under which gambling is carried shall be accompanied with following warnings: “Gambling may cause gambling addiction” Advertising of weapons shall be carried out only in relevant specialised publications for weapons or directly in the premises of commercial establishments (enterprises) selling weapons. The procedure for advertising weapons, armaments and military equipment as well as weapons which in accordance with the legislation may be at persons’ property shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Advertising of financial services that does not contain information on the provision of services is considered unfair. This information is written in a way that hampers its visual perception, according to the Law of Ukraine “On Advertising” Article 24-1. Advertising of the Employment Services is prohibited. Advertising of securities and stock market shall be advertising information about joint investment institutions, securities that are being issued, goods and services offered by professional stock market traders. The following shall not be considered as advertising of the stock market: information that according to the law and regulatory acts of the National Commission on Securities and Stock Market is subject to obligatory promulgation. Government authorities shall not be allowed to disseminate advertising of securities and the stock market, except for advertising related to the dissemination and circulation of government securities and securities owned by the state. Advertising of securities shall contain information about the registration of the relevant emission. The National Commission on Securities and Stock Market shall take a decision on the prohibition for dissemination of advertising. Advertisers of securities and stock market shall be prohibited to: indicate the amount of expected income for the securities (including on the results of the extrapolating prognosis) and give the prognosis for the increasing of the securities rate (except for fixed securities) In case the issuance of securities is recognised as unfair or invalid, the issuer of such securities shall cease the dissemination of advertising of the relevant emission. Article 25-1. Advertising of construction projects to alienate the construction project and its parts (including residential and non-residential premises) Article 26. Control of the observance of the legislation of Ukraine on advertising shall be implemented within the limits of their powers by the central executive authorities. Advertisers, producers and disseminators of advertising shall provide documents, verbal and/or written clarifications, video and audio recordings as well as other information necessary to exercise their control powers. The relevant government authority shall have the right to require advertisers, producers of advertising to eliminate detected breaches of the legislative requirements. Advertisers guilty of: ordering advertising of products the production and/or circulation of which are prohibited by law; submitting false information to an advertising producer necessary for the advertising production. Advertising producers guilty of breach of the third persons’ rights during advertising production; advertising disseminators guilty of Breach of the procedure for the dissemination and placement of advertising. Advertisers, advertising producers and disseminators shall be imposed with a fine in the amount of 100 non-taxable minimum incomes. The Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine shall impose a penalty on advertisers for the breach of the legislation of Ukraine on the protection against unfair competition. Public refutation of unfair and unlawful comparative advertising shall be performed voluntarily or according to a court decision. The Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, by 1 October 2003, submit for the consideration of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals as for the amendments to the laws of Ukraine arising from this Law. By 1 January 2004 bring its regulatory acts in conformity with the Law.