Ukraine adopts this Law, that defines the legal regime of the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine. Maritime areas externally adjacent to the territorial sea of Ukraine, including areas around the islands belonging to it, constitute the exclusive economic zone. Ukraine has sovereign rights to explore, exploit and conserve natural resources in the waters. Ukraine cooperates with other states on the basis of international treaties. All states, both coastal and those that do not have access to the seas, enjoy freedom of navigation and flight. Fishery, as well as research, exploration and other activities related to fishery in the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine, are carried out by foreign legal entities and individuals. Ukraine has an exclusive right to create, as well as to permit and to regulate construction, operation and use of artificial islands, installations and structures for marine scientific research, to explore and to exploit natural resources. In its exclusive (maritime) economic zone, Ukraine has exclusive jurisdiction over artificial islands. The width of safety zones shall not exceed 500 metres. Marine scientific researches in the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine are conducted only with the consent of specially authorised bodies of Ukrainian state. Creation of artificial islands, construction of installations and structures, establishment of security zones around them, as well as complete or partial elimination of them, requires a corresponding notification. Foreign states, their legal entities and individuals, as well as international organisations that intend to conduct marine scientific research in the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine, have to submit to the specially authorised bodies of Ukraine full information about the nature and goals of the project. If provided information is inaccurate, or a foreign state has outstanding obligations before the state of Ukraine arising from a previously implemented scientific project, the special authorised bodies may refuse to issue permission. Marine scientific researches in the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine may be temporarily prohibited (suspended) by the specially authorised bodies of Ukraine. Decision on a temporary prohibition (suspension) may be lifted by such authorities, and the study will continue as soon as another state, its legal entity or individual, or an international organisation conducts the study. Ukraine has the right to take protective measures against pollution or against the threat of its contamination, taking into account the size of actual or possible damage. Disposal of waste or other materials and objects within the exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine is prohibited. If there are sufficient grounds to believe that any foreign vessel has violated the requirements of this Law or other relevant legislative acts of Ukraine and is trying to disappear, there is a right to chase it. Citizens of Ukraine, foreigners and persons without citizenship are subject to disciplinary, civil, administrative or criminal liability for violation of the legislation on the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine. Illegal exploration or exploitation of natural resources, creation of artificial islands, construction of installations and structures, introduction of security zones around them without the permission of a specially authorised body of Ukraine are all violations of this law. The same actions if they were committed repeatedly during the year or caused an accident or loss of ships, - shall entail the imposition of a fine from one thousand four hundred to four thousandFour hundred non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens. Illegal extraction of natural resources within the exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine. Illegal conduct of marine scientific researches. Pollution of marine environment. Illegal pollution in any possible way of the marine environment in the exclusive (maritime) economic zone of Ukraine shall entail the imposition of a fine from one six hundred sixty to one thousand four hundred non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens. Same actions if they were committed repeatedly during the year or caused harm to the health of people, living resources of the sea, recreational zones. Fine, provisioned by Part one of Article 22, can be charged immediately by the officials that, according to the part one of this article, are authorised to impose fines. Fine can be imposed if violator was detained at location distanced from the coastal line and violator voluntary agreed to pay fine immediately. Decision on non-repayable seizure of illegally extracted resources is approved by the body authorised to imposing fine. Payment for fines imposed according to Articles 22-26 of this Law is made in currency that is in circulation at the territory of Ukraine. Foreign legal persons pay fines in freely convertible currency according to the exchange rate of the National Bank of Ukraine on the day of violation. In case if fine was not paid within period defined by Part three of this Article, fine is collected via court procedure.