Subsoil is the part of the earth’s crust that is situated under the surface of the dry land and the bottom of water basins. The objective of the Subsoil Code of Ukraine is to regulate mining relations to ensure the rational, integrated subsoil use to meet the needs for mineral raw materials. The subsoil is the exclusive property of the Ukrainian people and is provided only for use. Agreements or actions that directly or implicitly violate the property rights of the Ukrainians are invalid. All mineral deposits, including man-made ones, with reserves estimated as industrial, make up the State Fund of Mineral Deposits. The competence of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine in the field of mining relations regulation includes determining the main directions of state policy. The jurisdiction of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine involves: 1) implementation of the state policy, 2) state control over the geological study, use and protection of subsoil. The competence of the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the field of mining relations regulation involves: distribution of fees for the use of mineral resources among the relevant local budgets. The competence of oblast, Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils involves: provision of subsoil for use to develop mineral deposits of local significance. The jurisdiction of village, settlement, city and raion councils and councils of amalgamated territorial communities within their territory. Approving the provision of subsoil for use for the purpose of geological study, development of mineral deposits of local significance. Subsoil users can be enterprises, institutions, organisations, citizens of Ukraine, as well as foreigners. Subsoil users can be citizens of Ukraine, foreigners, stateless persons, legal entities of Ukraine or other states, associations of legal entities established within or outside Ukraine (investors) Under the terms of production sharing agreements, subsoil is provided for use for the purpose of geological study, mining and other activities. Auction for the sale of special subsoil use permits are conducted through electronic bidding. Carrying out the planned mining activities stipulated by the Law of Ukraine “On Environmental Impact Assessment” is subject to mandatory environmental impact assessment with mandatory approval of design documentation on the recultivation of the corresponding land in the manner prescribed by law. Issuance of special subsoil use permits is subject to prior approval of an issue on the provision of land by the relevant council. The responsibility for compliance with the conditions provided for by special permits shall be borne by the entity that has received a special permit. The procedure and conditions of the tender for the conclusion of production sharing agreements are determined by the Law of Ukraine “On Production Sharing Agreements” Special subsoil use permits issued to a coal mining enterprise of the state sector of the economy. Lease or concessionaire shall produce coal and (or) lignite (brown coal) at the leased or concessioned facility based on a valid special permit. Mining allotment is provided to users for industrial development of mineral deposits and purposes not related to the extraction of minerals. Mining allotments are provided by the territorial departments of the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of labour protection. The procedure for providing mining allotments is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Users of oil-and-gas bearing and amber bearing subsoil who have received a special permit for such sub soil use do not need mining allotment. Land plots of state-owned or communal property are to be provided for use, which at the time of the auction or tender for the provision of subsoil have been formed as an object of civil rights. The term of lease, emphyteusis, superficies agreements in respect of such land plots may be extended only provided that they are not transferred to the sub soil user. Subsoil is provided for use to enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens only if they have a special permit for the subsoil use. The right to sub soil use is certified by an act on providing a mining allotment. For the geological study, including for research and industrial development of mineral deposits of national significance, the sub soils is provided. Landowners and land users have the right to extract minerals of local significance, peat, groundwater (except mineral) and subsoil use for other purposes. Extraction of minerals with the use of special technical means that can lead to undesirable changes in the environment shall be agreed upon with local councils, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and oblast, Kyiv and Sevastopol city state administrations. A subsoil user (investor) who has received a special permit for the subsoils use and a mining allotment (if necessary) or has entered into a production sharing agreement shall have the exclusive right to use theSubsoil within its boundaries in accordance with this special permit. Any activity related to the use of subsoIL within the mining allotments may be carried out only with the consent of the sub soil user to whom it has been provided. Damages caused by the violation of the Subsoil users' rights are subject to compensation. The right to use subsoil shall be terminated by the authority that has provided it for use, and in the cases provided for in clauses 4, 5, 6 of this Article, in case of disagreement of users – in court. Landowners and land users may be deprived of the right to extract minerals of local significance and fresh groundwater. Subsoil use is fee-based, except for the cases provided for in Article 29 of this Code. The fee is charged for the use of subsoil within the territory of Ukraine, its continental shelf and the exclusive (maritime) economic zone. Fees for the subsoils use are credited to the state and local budgets under the Budget Code. The amount of the fee for issuing special subsoil use permits shall be determined following the auction results. In case of granting a permit without holding an auction, a fee is charged, which is calculated based on the initial selling price of such a permit at auction. The fee for the issuance of special permits to state children's specialised health resort institution is not charged for the extraction of mineral waters. Local councils and local executive authorities facilitate conducting works on the geological study of subsoil. State registration and maintaining a record of works is carried out by the central executive authority. The procedure for disposing of geological information shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Customers of works may stipulate other requirements, which do not contradict the legislation. The subsoil user shall have the right to dispose of, including sell and transfer to residents and non-residents of Ukraine for use, geological information created (purchased) at their own expense. The owner of geological information shall notify the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of geological study and rational use ofSubsoil. The State Cadastre of Mineral Deposits and Manifestations of Minerals includes geospatial data, metadata and services, disclosures and other activities with which and access to which can be implemented on the Internet. It contains information on the quantity, quality and degree of mineral reserves study in relation to deposits of industrial importance, their location and level of industrial development. The results of mineral reserve write-off are recorded in the State Informational Geological Fund of Ukraine. Extracted minerals, mineral reserves that have lost their industrial significance, as well as those lost in the extraction process or not confirmed during subsequent exploration works or development of the field, are subject to deregistration. The commissioning of new and reconstructed mining facilities, mineral raw materials processing facilities, as well as underground structures not related to mining is prohibited if during their design the requirements of this article were not observed. Rules of technical operation, designs and plans for development of mineral deposits and mineral raw material processing shall be agreed upon by subsoil users. Quotas are set for the extraction of certain types of minerals. The procedure for setting quotas for mining shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Subsoil use based on a special permit for geological study of amber-bearing subsoil. Research and development of deposits with subsequent extraction of amber. Mothballing and liquidation of mining facilities and other structures related to the subsoil use under the production sharing agreement shall be carried out as prescribed by such agreement. Subsoil protection: Measures to ensure demilitarisation of wastewater, harmful substances and production waste within certain limits. The main requirements in the field of subsoil protection are the following: ensuring a complete and comprehensive geological study of the sub soil. It is prohibited to design and build settlements, industrial complexes and other facilities without the prior geological study. Subsoil use may be restricted, temporarily prohibited (suspended) or terminated by the central executive authority. The procedure for building on mineral deposits areas of national significance shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Rare geological outcrops, mineralogical formations, paleontological objects and other subsoil areas, which are of special scientific or cultural value, may be recognised as objects of the nature reserve fund in the manner prescribed by law. State supervision over the geological exploration works, their use and protection, as well as the use and processing of mineral raw materials (state mining supervision) shall be carried out by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of labour protection. State geological control authority verifies compliance with requirements for the subsoil protection during the conduct of works. The state geological control authority, within its competence, ensures addressing other issues on the geological study of subsoil. The state mining supervision authority verifies: 1) the completeness of the study of mineral deposits, mining and engineering, engineering and geological, hydrogeological and other conditions of their development. The state mining supervision authority is entitled to: 1) give mandatory instructions (orders) on the elimination of violations of norms and rules of conducting works; 2) terminate the works related to subsoil use, according to the procedure established by the legislation of Ukraine, in case of violations; 3) require subsoils users to justify the mineral reserves write-off; 4) give recommendations on the introduction of new advanced technologies for mineral raw materials processing. Plaintiffs are exempt from paying state duties in cases of collection and compensation for damages caused to the state. Disputes on the use of subsoil arising with other states, as well as between foreigners, stateless persons, foreign legal entities and a sub soil owner, shall be considered in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine. Unauthorised subsoil use and building on mineral deposits areas in violation of the established procedure shall be terminated without reimbursement of expenses incurred. Enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens are obliged to reimburse the losses caused by them as a result of violations of the legislation. If an international treaty of Ukraine establishes rules other than those contained in the legislation of Ukraine on theSubsoil, the rules of the international treaty shall apply.