National Intellectual Property Office (hereinafter NIPO) means a state organisation that is part of the state system of the legal protection of intellectual property. Secret invention (secret utility model) means an invention containing information classified as a state secret, the rights to which are certified by a patent for a secret invention. Service invention (utility model) is an invention created by an employee in connection with the performance of official duties. Expert appraisal (expert appraisal of content) means an expert appraisal that ascertains the compliance of an invention with patentability conditions. license means a permission of the patent holder (licensor) granted to another person (licensee) to use the invention (utility model) under certain conditions. application means a set of documents required for state registration of an inventions (utilities model) The legislation of Ukraine on the protection of rights to inventions (utility models) shall be based upon the Constitution of Ukraine and consists of this Law, Civil Code of Ukraine, Law of Ukraine On the State Secret and other regulations. Powers of the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property, shall include ensuring the regulatory and legal governance. The functions of NIPO are performed by a legal entity of public law (state organisation) The central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property shall exercise other powers under the law. The powers of the National Intellectual Property Office shall include: receipt of applications, their expert appraisal, decision-making on them and recognition of rights to inventions and utility models. NIPO has the right to receive from ministries, other central and local executive bodies, and local self-government bodies the information, documents, and materials necessary to perform the powers and functions assigned to it free of charge. NIPO is chaired by the head, who is appointed and dismissed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. The Supervisory Board may consist of two representatives of international and/or regional intellectual property organisations with an advisory voting right. The personal composition of the supervisory board shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. The powers of a member of the Supervisory board may be terminated prematurely at the request of the body that delegated him. Supervisory Board operates in accordance with this Law and the regulations on the Supervisory Board approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. NIPO shall annually publish on its official website financial statements, in particular annual financial statements. Funding of NIPo activities shall be provided from the proceeds from the collection of fees for actions related to the protection of intellectualproperty rights. The activities of the Appeals Chamber shall be based on the principles of legitimacy, impartiality, independence, transparency, reliability, collegiality and qualified staffing. A qualified electronic signature may be used on documents accepted or approved by NIPO in accordance with this Law. The main principles for considering objections and applications by the Appeals Chambers are the rule of law, legitimacy, equality of participants in the consideration before the law. Appeals Commission means NIPO's collegiate body, which is formed to consider complaints of candidates for representatives in intellectual property cases. The powers of the Appeals Commission, its composition, formation procedure, requirements for its members, term of office, as well as rules and procedures of its activities shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. Foreigners, stateless persons, and foreign legal entities enjoy the same rights, provided by this Law, as the citizens and legal entities of Ukraine in accordance with international treaties of Ukraine. The legal protection shall be granted to an invention (utility model) that does not contradict public interest, principles of humanity and moral and complies with patentability conditions. This provision shall not affect the granting of legal protection to an invention which involves elements of the human body outside the body or otherwise obtained using a technical process. This provision does not apply to products (substances or compositions) used in diagnosis or treatment. Processes for cloning human beings; processes for modifying germline genetic identity of human; the use of human embryos for industrial or commercial purposes. The term of validity of intellectual property rights to an invention shall be 20 years from the date of the submission of the application to the NIPO. If the application has been submitted as an international application, the term ofvalidity of rights to the invention will be calculated from that date. The scope of the legal protection being provided shall be determined by the formula. An invention involves an inventive step, if it is not obvious for a specialist, i.e., does not result from the level of technology explicitly. An invention (utility model) shall be deemed capable of industrial application if it can be used in the industry or in another field of activities. An inventor shall enjoy the right to confer his/her name on the invention (utility model) created by him/her. An inventor shall give the employer a notice in writing of a proprietary invention. The employer shall be obliged to submit an application for state registration to the NIPO. The right to obtain a patent may be enjoyed by a successor of the inventor or that of the employer respectively. The application can be submitted in paper or electronic form. The information contained in the application shall be declared state secret in accordance with the Law of Ukraine On State Secrets and regulations adopted on its basis. Application for a utility model shall cover a single utility model. Application shall be drawn up in Ukrainian and contain: an application for state registration of the invention (utility model); a description of. the invention; a formula of the inventions; drawings (if there are references. thereto in the description); a synopsis. The application submission date shall be the date of the receipt by the NIPO of materials, which contain at least: an application for the state registration of the invention (utility model) in Ukrainian made in arbitrary form. Expert appraisal of an international application shall be carried out subject to receipt of the translation of this application into Ukrainian. The NIPO shall publish the information specified by it on the international application accepted for expert appraisal in the Bulletin. The deadlines mentioned in Parts 1 and 2 of this Article, which have been missed by the applicant for unforeseen reasons not depending on the same, may be extended by 2 months after the date of the expiry of the said term subject to the payment of an appropriate fee. If necessary, the NIPo may require translation of the preliminary application into Ukrainian. The priority of several preliminary applications may be claimed in respect of the application as a whole or an individual item of the formula of the invention (utility model). At that, the time frames, whose initial date is the date of priority, shall be calculated from the earliest priority date. The time for receipt of the translation of the preliminary application may be extended up to 6 months. The expert appraisal of the application consists of preliminary appraisal, formal appraisal, and, on the application for a patent for an invention (secret invention), qualification appraisal. The NIPO's decision along with conclusion is sent to the applicant. The applicant shall have the right to introduce corrections of mistakes and changes of his/her name and address. A fee shall be charged for the filing of a request for correction of a mistake or introduction of any of the above-indicated changes. The NIPO may request from the applicant submission of additional materials if expert appraisal is impossible without them. If the applicant fails to submit additional materials within the set time frame, the application is considered withdrawn. The application materials shall be sent to the relevant Expert on State Secrets (hereinafter referred to as the State Expert) to conclude whether the invention (utility model) shall be declared state secret. The State Expert shall send his/her opinion together with materials of the application to the NIPO within one month of his/ her receipt of the same. The time frame of the validity of the decision to declare the information stated in the application a state secret shall be set. If materials of the application fail to meet the requirements of Article 13 of this Law, a notification of this is immediately sent to the applicant. If the non-conformity is eliminated within two months from the date of receiving of the notification by the applicant, then the application is considered non-submitted, and the applicant is notified thereof. The NIPO shall send the applicant a well-founded preliminary conclusion on this with a proposal to fill a motivated answer with elimination, if needed, of irregularities indicated in the conclusion. The applicant's answer is to be filled within the period specified by Paragraph 6 of this Article and is taken into account at the preparation of the conclusion of the expert appraisal on the application. The information on applications, which were declared state secret by a decision of the State Expert, shall not be published. Upon publication of the information on the application, any person shall have the right to familiarise him/herself with materials of the application according to the procedure to be specified by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. In case of the detection of obvious errors in the published information, the applicant shall have right to submit request to rectify them. Any person may submit to the NIPO comments on the compliance of the claimed invention with the conditions of legal protection specified in this Law. The report on the results of the information search shall be sent to the person who submitted the request within two months of the date of its submission. The NIPO sends the applicant a reasoned preliminary opinion with a proposal to provide a reasoned response to eliminate, if necessary, the shortcomings identified in the opinion. The applicant's response shall be provided within the period established by Part 6 of this Article for additional materials. The amended formula shall be deemed valid from the date of publication of the information on the state registration of the invention. Expert appraisal of the divisional application shall be carried out in accordance with Article 16 of this Law. The application is not revoked, is not deemed revoked, and under which no decision to refuse the issue of state registration of the invention has been made. Other requirements for the division of the application are determined by the rules established by the central executive authority. An applicant shall be entitled to compensation for losses caused to him/her after the publication of the information on an application by the person, who really knew or was notified in writing in the Ukrainian language. The said compensation may be received by the applicant only after state registration of such invention. The temporary legal protection under an international application shall start as from the date of its publication. The term of payment of the fee for publication on the state registration of an invention (utility model) shall be extended, but for not more than six months if a corresponding request is submitted. A fee is charged for introduction of changes about an invention or utility model to the Register. The right to appeal against a decision of the NIPO to the Appeals Chamber is lost in the event of payment of the state fee for the registration of an invention. A fee is levied for the submission of such objection. The information on state registration of a secret invention (secret utility model) shall not be published. An applicant may appeal against a decision of the Appellate Chamber, approved by the Office, or its copy to the court within two months from the date of receiving of the decision. In the event of a full or partial satisfaction of an objection by the Appeals Chamber due to violation of the procedure of exert appraisal, the fee for the submission of the objection is to be returned. The change in the secrecy classification of an invention (utility model) or its declassification shall take place on the basis of a decision of the appropriate State Expert. The holder of a patent for an invention has the right to extend the validity of intellectual property rights to such an invention. The additional protection certificate is issued at the request of the patent holder. Patent holder has right to extend validity of intellectual property rights if application for permission of the competent authority to introduce a medicinal product, animal protection product, plant protection product in civil circulation in Ukraine was filed within 1 year from the date of submission of such an application for the first time in any country. Period of additional protection shall be equal to the period between the. date of filing the application with the NIPO and the date. of receipt by the patent holder of the first permission, reduced by 5 years. A person who intends to manufacture a product or a medicinal product containing a product that uses a patented invention during the period of additional protection is obliged to affix the information mark "UA Export" for the manufacture of the product. The manufacturer of a product and medicinal product is obliged. to obtain written guarantees from all persons who, on his/her. behalf, carry out storage, export, or perform other actions, which in accordance with this. Law are not recognized as infringement of the rights to the invention. The rights resulting from state registration of an invention (Utility Model) shall become effective as of the date following the date of the state registration. The patent holder shall have the right to use the invention (utility model) at his/her discretion, unless such use infringes upon rights of other patent holders. A secret invention shall be used by the patent holder in adherence to requirements of the Law of Ukraine On State Secrets. A method protected by the patent shall be declared applied, if each feature included in an independent item of the formula of the invention (utility model) or an equivalent feature is used. The right of the patent holder to an invention, which is a product with genetic information, extends to any material which contains this product and in which genetic information performs its function. The patent shall confer upon its holder the exclusive property right to prevent and prohibit other persons from using the invention (utility model) without his/her consent. Disputes in respect of the amount and the procedure of the payment of the compensation shall be settled by way of a court procedure. A patent holder may use precautionary marking with the patent number on the product or the package of the product. A person desirous of making use of such permit shall be obliged to conclude a contract with the patent or the declarative patent. Disputes arising in the course of the performance of such contract shall be settled by courts of law. Rights arising from the patent shall not affect any other personal property or nonproperty rights of the inventor, which are governed by other laws of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has the right to allow a person nominated by it to use the invention (utility model) without consent of the holder of the patent. The right to such use is not transferred, except in the case when it is transferred together with that part of the enterprise or business practice in which it is carried out. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall have the right to allow the person to use the secret invention (utility model) without consent of the patent holder. Disputes related to conditions of granting licences and the payment of compensations and the amount thereof shall be settled by way of court procedure. Actions not Deemed to Constitute Infringement upon Rights A product manufactured using the patented invention (utility model) shall be deemed to have been acquired without infringing upon rights of the patent holder, if such product has been manufactured and/or introduced in the turnover after the manufacture. A patent holder may waiver of the rights resulting from state registration of the invention (Utility Model) in full or in part. NIPO conducts an expert appraisal of the invention with a new version of the formula for compliance with the requirements of this Article and Article 7 of this Law. Full or partial waiver of rights become effective as from the date of the publication of the information about it in the Bulletin. The validity of the intellectual property rights to an invention (utility model) shall be terminated in case of the failure to pay the annual fee. The validity of intellectual property rights to an invention (utility model) shall be terminated from the first day of the year, for which no fee was paid. The annual fee for maintaining the validity of Intellectual Property rights to a secret invention (secret utility model) may be paid during 12 months after the expiry of the established period. In this case, the annual fee amount shall be increased by 50%. An application for the invalidation of the rights to an invention may be submitted within nine months from the date of publication of the information on state registration of the invention. Changes to an independent clause of the formula may be made by modifying the features of such a clause in the formula or by adding features to it. The parties to the case on invalidation of the invention (utility model) are the person who submitted the application and the patent holder. The parties shall have equal rights to present evidence, examine it, and prove its persuasiveness before the Appeals Chamber. The Appeals Chamber shall not verify the accuracy of the evidence provided. The rights to an invention (utility model) declared invalid by the Appeals Chamber shall be deemed not to have entered into force on the day following the day of state registration of the invention. The protection of rights for an invention is provided in the court and another procedure determined by legislation. The amount and procedure of payment of the state fee for the registration of inventions (utility models) are defined by the legislation. The amount of fees provided for by this Law, terms and the procedure for their payment shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Five-year patents for inventions with a validity period of five years without expert appraisal of the content. Existing utility model patents shall be equated in terms of legal regime, including their term of validity, to declarative utilitymodel patents. Holders of five-year patent for inventions may submit applications for the qualification expert appraisal and the transformation of patents. "On Enforcing the Law of Ukraine On Protection of Rights to Inventions and Utility models" (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 1994, issue 7, page 33; 1997, issue 40, page 269). President of UkraineL. KRAVCHUKCity of Kyiv15 December 1993 "No. 3687-XII"