This law shall regulate relations arising in connection with the acquisition and exercise of industrial designs ownership in Ukraine. National Intellectual Property Office (hereinafter NIPO) means a state organisation that is part of the state system of the legal protection of intellectual property. Industrial design is the result of intellectual and creative activity of a person in the field of design engineering. Central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. NIPO and a system of scientific, educational, informational, and other state enterprises, institutions, organisations of relevant specialisation that are managed by the central executive authority. WIPO is World Intellectual Property Organisation. The functions of NIPO shall be performed by a legal entity of public law (state organisation), formed by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. The powers delegated to NIPo shall include: receipt of applications, their examination, decision-making on them; implementation of state registration of industrial designs. NIPO shall act on the basis of this Law, other laws of Ukraine, acts of the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. It shall conduct scientific research, engage experts and consultants to prepare recommendations on matters falling within the competence of NIPO. The head of NIPO may be a citizen of Ukraine who has lived in Ukraine for the last five years. He or she must have a university degree in law and/or intellectual property, work experience in the field of intellectual property for at least 10 years and experience in management positions for at at least 5 years. The head may not be a person who, in accordance with a court decision, is deprived of the right to bring about activities related to the performance of state functions. Powers of the Supervisory Board shall include the supervision of financial and economic activities of NIPO, budget execution, the use of funds generated from the proceeds from the collection of fees for actions related to the protection of intellectual property rights. The term of office of members of theSupervisory Board, except for the head, is two years and may be extended for no more than one term. NIPO shall not have a purpose of making a profit from its activities. Funding of NIPO activities shall be provided from the proceeds from the collection of fees for actions related to the protection of intellectual property rights. The main principles for considering objections and applications by the Appeals Chamber shall be the rule of law, legitimacy, equality of participants. Attestation Commission is a NIPO collegiate body, which is established with the purpose of determining the level of professional training of persons who have shown their intention to acquire the right to engage in the activities of a representative in intellectual property cases (patent attorney) Appeals Commission is formed to consider complaints of candidates for representatives in intellectualproperty cases. The powers of the Attestation Commission, its composition, formation procedure, requirements for its members, term of office as well as rules and procedures of its activities shall be determined by the central executive authority. The Appeals Commission shall consist of employees of the NIPO and prominent scientists working in the field of intellectual property. The powers of the Appeals Commission, its composition, formation procedure, requirements for its members, term of office, as well as rules and procedures of its activities shall be determined by the central executive authority. Foreigners and stateless persons shall have the same rights and obligations as persons of Ukraine provided by this Law. Industrial design is the result of intellectual, creative activity in the field of artistic design, embodied or applied in a product that is part of a composite product and is invisible during normal product use. Normal use of the product is considered to be its use by the end user, while logistics, maintenance or repair is not considered as normal use. The scope of legal protection of an industrial design shall include any other industrial design that does not make a distinct overall impression on the informed user. The industrial design which is used or embodied in a product which forms part of a composite product shall be deemed to be new and individual if the component included in the composite product remains visible during normal use. The registered industrial design shall be deemed to have been made public if it has been published as a result of state registration or for other reasons, or has been exhibited, used in trade or otherwise made public, unless such events could not have become known during normal conduct of economic activity in circles specializing in the relevant field and conducting their activities on the territory of Ukraine. The right to register the industrial design created by the joint work of several authors shall belong to the authors jointly. The right to register the industrial design created by separate labour belongs to the applicant, whose application shall have an earlier date of submission to the NIPO. If the employer does not submit the application within four months from the date of receipt of this notice, the right to registration shall pass to the author. Disputes over the terms of receiving remuneration and its amount shall be resolved in a judicial proceeding. The application shall be drawn up in the Ukrainian language and shall contain: application of state registration of the industrial design; set of product images (the product itself or in the form of its layout or drawing), which gives a complete picture of its appearance. It is necessary to indicate the applicant (applicants) and his address, as well as the author (authors) in the application. The priority of the industrial design used in the exhibition shown at official or officially recognised international exhibitions held in the territory of a state party to the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property or the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organization may be established by the date of the first public exhibition of an exhibit in which the claimed industrial design is embodied. Final results of the application examination which is not considered withdrawn or has not been withdrawn are presented in a substantiated conclusion of the expert appraisal on request. Based on such a conclusion, the NIPO shall decide on the state registration for an industrial design or on the refusal of the state registered industrial design. The NIPo decision along with conclusion shall be sent to the applicant. The NIPO may request from the applicant submission of additional materials if examination is impossible without them. The period for filing additional materials shall be extended, but for not more than 6 months, if a corresponding request is submitted. Additional materials go beyond the essence of the industrial design disclosed in the submitted application, if they contain new essential features. The payment of the fee for filing an application for compliance with the established requirements shall be verified. The application shall be checked for conformity with formal requirements of Article 12 of this Law and rules determined on its basis by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. In case of non-compliance of the application materials, the applicant shall be notified immediately. If more than one hundred industrial designs are declared and/or the claimed industrial designs do not belong to the same class of ICID, the NIPO shall send a notification to the applicant with a proposal to divide the application. If the examination results show that the industrial design belongs to the objects specified in paragraph 2 of Article 5 of this Law, does not contradict the public order and generally accepted principles of morality, the effect of international registration on the territory of Ukraine shall be recognized. NIPO shall conduct the state registration of the industrial design by entering the relevant information into the Register. The procedure for the Register maintenance and a list of information contained in the Register shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. If the document on payment of state fee for registration of industrial design and fee for publication of information on state registration in the amount and manner prescribed by law were not obtained by the NIPO within three months from the date of receipt of the applicant's decision, the application is considered withdrawn. The certificate shall be issued by the NIPO within a month from the date of the industrial design state registration. The form of the certificate and the content of the information provided therein shall be specified by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. A fee shall be charged for familiarisation with the materials of the application. The NIPO decision shall be appealed to the Appeals Chamber by filing an objection against the decision. Fee shall be charged for the submission of such objection. If the fee has not been paid within the period indicated in clause 1 of this Article, the objection shall be deemed not filed, and a notification will be sent to the applicant. The relationship during the use of the industrial design, the rights to which belong to several persons, shall be determined by the agreement concluded between them. In the absence of the agreement, each of the owners may use the industrialDesign at the own discretion, but none of them shall have the right to grant permission (issue a licence) to use the design. The rights arising from the state registration of the industrial design shall not affect any other personal non-property or author's property rights. The owner of the unregistered industrial design, made public, shall have the right to prohibit its copying and use of an industrial design. Any person who has used the technological (technical) solution identical to the claimed industrial design in the interests of the own activities bona fide shall retain the right. The owner of the registered industrial design shall exercise his/her rights in good faith. If the industrial design is not used or insufficiently used in Ukraine for three years from the date of state registration, any person willing and ready to use it can apply to court for permission. The court shall decide on granting the permission to use the registeredindustrial design to the interested person determining the scope of its use. The owner of the registered industrial design may waive the rights to such industrial design at any time in whole or in part by virtue of an application submitted to the NIPO. The term of validity for the state registration of the industrial design shall be terminated in case of non-payment of the annual fee. An application for recognition of industrial design rights invalid in whole or in part can be submitted to the Appeals Chamber. If the rights to the industrial design are declared invalid in the manner prescribed by law and it has been established that the application was filed in violation of the rights of others, the court may decide to reimburse the owner of the certificate of damages. In case of industrial design rights invalidation, the NIPO shall publish a relevant notification in the Bulletin. The industrial design recognized by the court or the Appeals Chamber not meeting the conditions for granting legal protection specified by this Law may not be re-registered. The amount and procedure of payment of the state duty for the registration of the industrial design shall be defined by the legislation. Any person shall have the right to register the industrial design in foreign states. Receipts from fees stipulated by this Law shall be used solely for the development and functioning of the state system of legal protection of intellectual property. State Incentive (Encouragement) for the Creation and Use of Industrial Designs.