This Law shall regulate relations arising in connection with the acquisition and use of rights to trademarks in Ukraine. National Intellectual Property Office (hereinafter NIPO) means a state organisation that is part of the state system of the legal protection of intellectual property, defined at the national level by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Attestation commission is the NIPO collegiate body, the main purpose of which is to undertake a performance review of persons who have shown their intention to acquire the right to engage in the activities of a representative in intellectual property cases (patent attorney) Appeals Commission considers complaints of candidates for representatives in Intellectual Property cases. Application Database is a database maintained electronically, which contains information on applications and their current processing. National Intellectual Property Office (NIPO) in the Field of Protection of Rights to Trademarks for Goods and Services (Trademarks) The functions of NIPO shall be performed by a legal entity of public law (state organisation), formed by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. NIPO has the right to receive from ministries, other central and local executive bodies, and local self-government bodies the information, documents, and materials necessary to perform the powers and functions assigned to it free of charge. NIPO acts on the basis of this Law, other laws, acts of the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. The head of NIPO is appointed subject to the results of an open competition conducted by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. The head ofNIPO may not be a person who is deprived of the right to bring about activities related to the performance of state functions or hold relevant positions. The term of office of members of the Supervisory Board, except for the head, is two years and may be extended for no more than one term. The powers of the member may be terminated before maturity at the request of the body that delegated him. The form of work is a meeting, based on the results of which the protocol is drawn up, a copy of which is sent to NIPO. NIPO shall not have a purpose of making a profit from its activities. Funding of NIPO activities shall be provided from the proceeds from the collection of fees for actions related to the protection of intellectual property rights. Financial or consolidated financial statements of NipO shall be subject to audit, which is carried out based on the decision of the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy. Appeals Commission is formed to consider complaints of candidates for representatives in intellectual property cases (patent attorneys) against decisions of the Personnel Review Commission. The powers of the Appeals Commission, its composition, formation procedure, requirements for its members, term of office, as well as rules and procedures of its activities shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. The Appeals Commission shall act on the basis of this Law and the regulation approved by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. If an international treaty of Ukraine establishes rules other than those provided for by the legislation of Ukraine on trademarks, the rules of the international treaty shall apply. Any sign or any combination of signs may be the subject of a trademark. The acquisition of the right to a trademark shall be certified by a certificate. The validity period of a certificate shall be ten years from the date of submitting an application to NIPO. Names connected with the activities of the Communist Party, the establishment of the Soviet power in the territory of Ukraine or in separate administrative and territorial units shall not be subject to trademark. The legal protection shall not be granted for signs that represent or imitate: state emblems, flags and other state symbols. Such signs may be included as non-protected elements of a trademark, provided that there is the consent of the relevant competent authority or their owners. The competent authority for granting permission to use the official name and international two-letter code of the state of Ukraine in a trademark shall be a collegial body. The signs specified in paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 7 and 8 of this clause may be included in a trademark as non-protected elements in the event that these signs are not dominative in the image of the trademark. Signs shall not be registered as trademarks when as of the date of submitting an application or, if the priority is claimed. Signs shall not be registered as trademarks if they reproduce: industrial designs, the rights to which belong to other persons in Ukraine. Signs that contradict the requirements of part 2, Article 5 of this Law and the Law of Ukraine “On Condemnation of the Communist and National-Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and Prohibition of Propaganda of Their Symbols” shall not. be granted legal protection. The application shall be drawn up and submitted following the rules established by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. A fee shall be levied for submitting an application. Its amount shall be determined taking into account the number of applicants and Nice Classification classes. The priority of a trademark used in an exhibit, presented at official or officially recognised international exhibitions within the territory of a state being a party to the Paris Convention or the Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organisation, may be determined by the date of the first public display of the exhibit at the exhibition, where the trademark applied for was used or presented. NIPO received an application within six months from the specified date. Expert appraisal of an application consists of the formal expert appraisal and qualification expert appraisal. The final results of the expert appraisal of an application that is not considered to be withdrawn or is not withdrawn or of a trademark under the international registration shall be presented to NIPO. Based on such conclusion on the application, NIPo shall make a decision to register the trademark for all goods and services specified in the application. The applicant may make changes to the application associated with change of the person of the applicant on condition of consent of other applicants indicated in the application. Fee shall be charged for the filing of a request for correction of a mistake or making the above-indicated changes on condition that the mistake is not obvious or technical. Additional materials in a part that goes beyond the essence of the sign revealed in the submitted application or broaden the list of goods and services specified in the application shall not be taken into consideration. Fee shall be charged for the submission of such objection. The applicant may refute the objection and leave the application unchanged, amend, or withdraw the application. A notification of the determined date of submitting an application shall be sent to the applicant. Information on the application determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property shall be published in the Bulletin within five business days from the date of sending such notification. The composition of information subject to publication shall include the following data (if available): application number, date of submission, exhibition priority date. A fee shall be charged for familiarisation with the materials of the application. If application materials fail to meet the requirements of Article 8 of this Law, a notification thereof shall be immediately sent to the applicant. If the non-conformity is eliminated within 2 months from the date of receiving the notification by the applicant, the application shall be considered withdrawn. During the qualification expert appraisal, compliance of the sign applied for with the conditions of granting legal protection established by this Law shall be verified. objections submitted in accordance with clause 8 of this Article shall be considered. A copy of the NIPO decision made on the basis of the conclusion of expert appraisal shall be sent to the person submitting objection. An applicant shall have the right to withdraw the application at any time before the date of paying the state duty for certificate issuance. If based on the results of the qualification expert appraisal there are grounds to consider that the trademark does not comply with the conditions of granting legal protection, NIPO shall send a preliminary refusal to grant legal protection to the International Bureau of WIPO. The term for receiving a document on the payment of the state duty for certificate issuance and the fee for publication on certificate issuance shall be prolonged but not more than for six months. The procedure for the Register maintenance and a list of information contained in the Register shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy. The form of the certificate and the content of the information provided therein shall be specified by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. The applicant may appeal against the NIPO decision on the application in court proceeding or to the Appeals Chamber. An objection against the NIPO decision on the application shall be considered according to the Regulation of the Appeals Chamber. The term for consideration of the objection may be extended on the initiative of the applicant or the person submitting an objection in accordance with paragraph 2, clause 1 of this Article. If the objection is satisfied in full or in part, the fee for submission of the objections shall be refunded in the amount of 50 per cent of the established fee for submitting the objection. The rights arising from the certificate shall be effective from the date of submitting an application. The certificate holder shall have the right to use the trademark and exercise other rights provided by this Law. A trademark shall be considered to be used if it was applied in the form of the registered trademark. The right of a certificate holder to prohibit other persons to use the registered trademark without his consent shall not apply to: exercising any right acquired before the application submission date or, if the priority was claimed. The use of the trademark for goods put into the civil circulation under this trademark by the certificate holder or by his consent. The agreement on the transfer of the trademark property rights and the licence agreement shall be deemed valid, if made in writing and signed by the parties. A certificate holder shall have the right to place a warning marking alongside with the trademark in the form of the circled Latin character “R” that indicates the trademark is registered in Ukraine. A request for extending the certificate's validity period and fee for each extension of its validity period shall be received by NIPO. A certificate shall be terminated on the first day of the validity period if the respective fee has not been paid. If the trademark is not used in Ukraine, in whole or with respect to the part of goods and services listed in the certificate, continuously within five years, any person shall have the right to appeal. The certificate may not be terminated if, within the period from the expiry of a five-year term of non-use of the trademark until submitting the claim for early termination of the certificate, the trademark has come into use or its use was resumed. A certificate may be invalidated in whole or in part by judicial procedure in the following cases. The use of trademarks and signs specified in clause 5 of Article 16 of this Law in domain names without the certificate holder consent shall be also considered to be the infringement of the rights. The protection of trademark rights shall be carried out following a judicial and other procedure established by law. The amount of and procedure for paying the state duty for issuing certificates to trademarks for goods and services shall be determined. Fees stipulated by this Law shall be target-oriented and used solely for the development and functioning of the state system of legal protection of intellectual property. The protection of rights to a well-known trademark shall be based on the recognition of the trademark to be well known by the Appeals Chamber or the court. The procedure for recognising a trademark to be well known in Ukraine by the Appeals Chamber shall be established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. Information on well-known trademarks, which are recognised as such, shall be entered into the list of trademarks well known by NIPO and published in the Bulletin.