This Law shall govern the proprietary and personal non-proprietary relations arising in connection with the acquisition, exercise and protection of the rights to plant varieties. The following definitions shall apply: variety author – an individual who discovered or invented and improved the variety. State Party – a state that has acceded to the International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants, adopted on 2 December 1961. This Law shall apply to varieties of all genus and species of plants. The right to dissemination in Ukraine shall not apply to plant varieties that are used for decorative purposes. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall direct and coordinate the work of the central executive authorities on the implementation of this Law. Foreign persons and stateless persons shall acquire, exercise and enjoy the protection of rights to plant variety in accordance with this law. The Regulatory Authority shall organise and carry out state supervision (oversight) in terms of protecting the rights to plant varieties. The Competent Authority shall: ensure the development of scientific, material and technical potential in the field of protection of rights to plants. The Central Executive Authority is in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy. The Competent Authority may authorise enterprises, institutions, organisations to exercise the powers in the field of rights to plant varieties assigned by this Law. It must meet the following requirements: is a legal entity that is a resident of Ukraine; can confirm the appropriate level of competence; has a sufficient number of qualified personnel working on a permanent basis. The procedure for confirming the appropriate level of competence by enterprises, institutions, organisations is approved by the Competent Authority. The requirements for the number of qualified personnel working on a permanent basis, the requirements for financial and material resources, accredited laboratories and the quality management system, and the list of documents required for obtaining authorisation, are also approved. The scope of the legal protection of a variety for which a patent has been issued is determined by the set of features outlined in the description of the variety included in the Register of Patents. A variety shall be deemed eligible to acquire intellectual property right if it is new, distinctive, homogeneous, and stable by the manifestation of characteristics. Varieties of genus and species to which the right of ownership has been limited under clause 1 of Section IX of this Law may be recognised as suitable for legal protection. Such varieties are not subject to the temporary legal protection provided for in Article 30. A variety is considered homogeneous if, taking into account the peculiarities of its propagation, all plants of this variety remain sufficiently similar. The state registration of a variety is carried out if the variety is distinctive, homogeneous and stable if it has been given a name, and if it is suitable for dissemination in Ukraine. A name shall be assigned to a variety, which shall uniquely identify it and distinguish it from any other name in Ukraine and other State Parties. The right to file an application for a plant variety shall belong to the variety author unless otherwise specified by this Law or an agreement. Rights to a variety in foreign states shall be acquired independently of the acquisition of such rights in Ukraine. The author of a variety shall own the copyright, which shall be personal moral rights and are protected perpetually under Article 37 of this Law. The right to submit an application for a plant variety has, accordingly, the legal successor (heir) of the author or employer. Disputes concerning the conditions of receipt by the author of a variety of the remuneration from the employer (customer) and its amount shall be resolved by the court. An application for a variety shall be filed with the Competent Authority by a person entitled to do so, under Articles 16, 17 and 18 of this Law. If a plant variety is created by two or more authors independently of each other, the rights to the variety shall belong to the applicant whose application has an earlier submission date. The application filing date shall be the date of receipt by the Competent Authority of the application materials provided for in part 3 of Article 20 of this Law. The name and residence address of the author(s) may not be indicated in the application. Samples of the planting material of the parent components shall not be attached to theApplication. An applicant may claim priority on the date of submission of a preliminary application for the same variety to the Competent Authority of another State Party. An applicant wishing to claim priority shall file a priority claim, a copy of a previous application together with an indication of the filing date of such application. An applicant shall be entitled to withdraw an application at any time until the date when the applicant receives a decision on the registration of a variety. Results of the examination of the variety shall be considered confidential information and shall be kept secret by the Competent Authority or expert institution. The applicant shall have the right on his/her own initiative to make changes to the application. Within ten calendar days the following documents shall be sent to the applicant: notification of acceptance of the application for consideration (indicating its number and date of submission) and import of prototypes of varieties. Information on the application shall be published in the official publication. An expert opinion on the positive results of a formal examination and the beginning of substantive examination will be sent. Substantive examination shall envisage a series of tests to be carried out as a requirement for the preparation of an expert opinion on the application. The applicant shall remove the specified source of incompatibility within two months of the date of the receipt of expert opinion. The amount of the fee for the services of substantive examination for varieties that do not pass the examination for suitability of a variety for dissemination in the Competent Authority or expert institution shall be lower than the amount. Examination of the proposed variety name shall be carried out to determine the conformity of this name to the requirements established by Article 13 of this Law. During the examination of the application for a variety, the applicant shall have the right to indicate the breeding code as the name of the variety in the application materials. An applicant shall inform the Competent Authority of his/her position on the specified expert opinion, objections or comments raised, within three months of the date of the receipt of such opinion. The alternative name for the variety proposed by the applicant shall be officially published. The new name shall be examined following the same procedure as used for the name of the previously proposed variety. Examination of the suitability of a variety for dissemination shall be carried out by the Competent Authority or an expert institution subject to the prior payment of the relevant fee. Verification of the confirmation by the state phytosanitary inspector will be done through the single state information web portal “Single Window for Foreign Trade” Any person may submit to the Competent Authority a reasoned objection to the registration of a variety. The applicant may refute the objection, and leave the application unchanged, amend it or withdraw it. If the declared variety does not meet the requirements of this Law, a decision shall be made to refuse the right to the variety. Information on a variety entered in the Register of Applications entitles the applicant to temporary legal protection from the date of filing the application. In case of non-payment of the State duty, the decision shall be revoked with respect to the emergence of intellectual property rights to the variety. The Register of Patents shall contain a set of official information on the state registration of intellectual property rights to a plant variety. Such information shall, in particular, include: a) number and date of registration of the rights to the variety; b) an indication of the botanical taxon (in Latin and Ukrainian) An applicant shall have the right to appeal against any decision, action or omission of the Competent Authority or expert institution regarding the application to the court. Patent, certificate on state registration, certificate of authorship for varieties not included in the list of genus and species of varieties are examined for compliance. The right to the dissemination of a variety in Ukraine shall arise from the date of the decision on state registration of intellectual property rights to dissemination of the variety. Varieties that are not included in the Register of Plant Varieties of Ukraine shall be prohibited from dissemination in Ukraine unless otherwise provided by law. The provisions of part 2 of this Article shall also apply to a variety: a) which is derived mainly from a variety of the patent owner (substantially inheriting the characteristics of the variety) 2. A variety shall be considered to be substantially derived from another (original variety) if it is at least obviously distinguished from the original variety, but retains the basic features displayed by the genotype.  intellectual property right to the dissemination of a plant variety is the right of its owner to disseminate the variety. The patent owner may grant permission (licence) for the use of a variety to any person based on a licence agreement. Under the licence agreement, the patent owner (licenser) transfers the right to use the variety to another person. The validity of intellectual property rights to a plant variety shall be limited by the term established by this Law. Fees shall be paid for the inclusion of the specified information in the Register of Patents and amendments thereto, made at the initiative of the parties to an agreement. Intellectual property rights belonging to a legal entity in the process of liquidation may be transferred (alienated) to another legal entity. Fee for maintaining the validity of intellectual property rights to a plant variety. Compulsory licences for the use of varieties may be granted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and by the court. The right to the dissemination of the variety shall be restored from the day following the entry of relevant information in the Register of Varieties. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may grant, for a period up to four years, a compulsory licence to the person designated by it. It can be granted on the grounds of emergency public necessity and, in the event of a military or State of emergency, provided that relevant compensation is paid to the owner of the variety.  Intellectual property rights to a plant variety shall not apply to the actions of any person with protected planting material provided for by the provisions of part 2 of Article 39 of this Law. Any person shall have the right to propagate, on his/her own farm and without being considered an infringement of the proprietary rights of the patent owner, the product of the harvest obtained by cultivating a protected variety. The size of land plots shall not be limited. The collected material can be brought to sowing conditions for the purpose of reproduction by the owner of the farm or through the provision of services. Other farm owners using a variety shall pay the patent owner a remuneration, according to a mutual agreement. Any person using a planting material of a variety shall use the name of that variety even after the expiry of the term of its legal protection. It is allowed to combine the variety name with signs for goods and services and with the indication of the origin of goods while using a variety. The validity of intellectual property rights to a plant variety shall be terminated on the grounds specified in part 3 of this Article, the day following the entry of information about it in the Register of Patents. After the termination of the intellectual property right to the dissemination of a Plant Variety, the dissemination shall be allowed until June 30 of the third year, calculating from the date of termination. Patent owner can waive intellectual property rights to a plant variety and a patent certifying those rights by submitting written notification to the Competent Authority. Rights shall remain the property of other co-owners of the variety. Right to a variety may be declared invalid in whole or in part by a court if variety was not distinctive on the date the application is deemed to have been filed. The state registration of this right and the patent certifying it shall be declared invalid to the same extent. Infringements of the rights to a variety shall be subject to liability, in accordance with the legislation in force. Disputes arising out of the relations regulated by this Law may be resolved in courts. Court may decide to impose a fine on the violator in the amount of 10 per cent of the amount awarded by the court in favour of the plaintiff. Fines shall be transferred to the State budget of Ukraine in compliance with the established procedure. Court may remove from commercial circulation or confiscation of any illegally obtained material of a variety. The state shall encourage the creation of new plant varieties, establish preferential conditions for taxation and credit to the authors of varieties. Authors of highly effective and widely disseminated varieties in Ukraine may be awarded the honorary title of ‘Honoured Breeder of Ukraine’ The amount of fees provided for by this Law and the procedure for their payment shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Within five years of the day when this Law enters into force, the genus and species of plant varieties to which the right of the variety owner extends may be restricted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The words “and for actions relating to the maintenance of the validity of patents for plant varieties’ shall be deleted; paragraphs 14–33 shall be replaced by two paragraphs.