Every person shall have an inalienable and indefeasible right to healthcare. Society and the state are responsible to present and future generations for the level of health and preservation of the Ukrainian people's gene pool. They ensure the priority of healthcare in the state activities, improving working conditions, education and living conditions. Healthcare shall mean a system of measures aimed at preserving and restoring physiological and psychological functions, optimal labour capacity and social activity of a person. Medical technology assessment shall mean an examination of medical technologies in terms of clinical efficiency, economic feasibility, organisational problems and safety issues for citizens due to their use. Medical care service (medical service) shall mean a service provided to a patient by a healthcare facility or an individual entrepreneur possessing a license to conduct economic activity in medical practice. Pre-hospital care shall mean urgent actions and organisational measures aimed at saving and sustaining a person's life in an emergency and minimising the impact of such a condition on his or her health. Rehabilitation care in the field of healthcare (hereinafter referred to rehabilitation care) involves the practice of rehabilitation specialists.  Core principles of healthcare in Ukraine shall be as follows: recognition of healthcare as the priority activity of the society and the state. observance of human and civil rights and freedoms in the field of healthcare and provision of related state guarantees. focus on modern standards of health, medical and rehabilitation care. Under the Constitution of Ukraine, the state shall guarantee all citizens enforcement of their rights in the field of healthcare. Citizens of Ukraine who are abroad shall be guaranteed the right to healthcare in the forms and to the extent provided for by the international treaties, which Ukraine is a party to. The state recognises the right of every citizen of Ukraine to healthcare and ensures its protection. Every citizen shall have the right to receive free medical care in state and municipal healthcare facilities. The state shall guarantee free medical and social examinations, forensic medical and forensic psychiatric examinations, autopsies and related examinations in the manner prescribed by law. Healthcare is one of the priority areas of state activity. The state shapes healthcare policy in Ukraine and ensures its implementation. Decisions on diminution of rights of citizens related to their health status may be appealed in court. An integral part of the public policy of healthcare in Ukraine shall be the health policy in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall organise the development and implementation of state targeted programmes, create economic, legal and organisational mechanisms. The system of standards in the field of healthcare comprises state social norms and industry standards. State social standards are established in accordance with the Law of Ukraine “On State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees” Industry standards in the field of healthcare shall be developed and approved by the central executive authority shaping state policies. Medical form shall be a list of medications registered in Ukraine, which includes medicines with proven efficacy, the permissible level of safety, the use of which is economically acceptable. Compliance with the standards of medical care is mandatory for all rehabilitation and healthcare facilities. The healthcare facility shall conduct its activities on the basis of the charter (regulation) approved by the owner of the facility. Only an individual who meets the uniform qualification requirements established by the central executive authority shaping state policies shall have the right to hold the position of the Head of a healthcare facility. Pharmacies are not subject to mandatory accreditation. Financial support of healthcare may be provided from the State Budget of Ukraine and local budgets, funds of legal entities and individuals, as well as from other legal sources. Medical care shall be provided free of charge at the expense of budget funds in healthcare facilities and by individual entrepreneurs registered in the manner prescribed by law and licensed for the right to conduct economic activity in medical practice. The state shall organise logistical support of healthcare to the extent necessary to provide the population with a guaranteed level of medical and rehabilitation care. All healthcare facilities shall be authorised to decide on their logistical support independently. The state shall promote the production of medical hardware, tools, equipment, laboratory reagents, medications and medical devices. All state targeted programmes in the field of healthcare are subject to the scientific examination conducted under the law. Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine is the highest scientific medical institution in Ukraine with the status of a self-governing organisation independently conducting research, and developing areas of scientific inquiry. State authorities and healthcare facilities shall promote the enforcement of citizen's right to participate in healthcare management. The formation procedure, rights, and responsibilities of the supervisory board of a healthcare facility and the standard regulation on it shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. To facilitate their activities, healthcare facilities may also establish boards of trustees, which (with their consent) may include philanthropists, public representatives and members of civil, charitable, religious organisations. Ukrainian authorities apply uniform sanitary-hygienic requirements to the planning and development of settlements. Owners and heads of enterprises, institutions and organisations shall ensure compliance with safety and industrial sanitation rules. The state shall provide supervision and control over the creation of favourable conditions for work, study, life and leisure. The state shall provide a systematic scientifically based prevention, treatment, localisation and elimination of mass infectious diseases. Carriers of infectious diseases dangerous to the population shall be suspended from work and other activities. Mandatory medical examinations, preventive vaccinations, medical and quarantine measures may be carried out. Medical intervention that may cause a disorder of the human genetic apparatus shall be prohibited. Advertising of tobacco products, alcoholic beverages and other goods harmful to human health is in line with the Law of Ukraine “On Advertising” hypnosis, suggestion, other methods of psychological and psychotherapeutic influence is allowed only in places and in the manner prescribed by the central executive authority. The attending physician delivering the rehabilitation care in the field of healthcare during post-acute and long-term rehabilitation periods is a physician of physical and rehabilitation medicine. The physician shall have the right to refuse further management of the patient if the latter does not comply with medical prescriptions or internal regulations of the healthcare facility. The patient shall have the right to select a physician to deliver primary medical care in the manner established by the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare. Primary medical care shall be delivered free of charge at the healthcare facilities and by individual entrepreneurs who are duly licensed to provide respective services. The attending physician delivering secondary (specialised) medical care may be a physician at a healthcare facility where such assistance is being delivered.  secondary (specialised) medical care shall be delivered free of charge at the healthcare facilities delivering such services, with which the heads of budget funds have concluded contracts for medical service to the population. Tertiary (highly specialised)Medical care shall mean medical assistance delivered on scheduled outpatient and inpatient conditions or in emergency situations. Tertiary (highly specialised) medical care may be delivered by research and teaching personnel of higher (postgraduate) education institutions that provide training in the field of healthcare. The attending physician delivering tertiary medical care at the healthcare facility delivering such services shall be assigned by the head of the given facility or a person authorised by him or her. Medical care using telehealth enables providing a patient with medical care services in the field of consultation, diagnostics, and treatment. The procedure for delivering telehealth services shall be determined by the central executive authority shaping and implementing state policies. Citizens of Ukraine may be sent for treatment abroad if it is necessary to deliver one or another type of medical care. Every patient shall have the right, when justified by his condition, to be admitted to any healthcare facility of his or her choice. Medical workers and other persons who became aware of the disease, medical check-up, examination and results thereof, as well as intimate and family aspects of life may not disclose this information. Medical intervention may be allowed only if it cannot harm the patient's health. The consent of a patient informed in accordance with Article 39 of these Fundamentals is required for the application of diagnostic, prophylactic or treatment methods. A patient who has acquired full civil capacity and is aware of the significance of his or her actions shall have the right to refuse treatment. New diagnostic, prophylactic or treatment methods and medications that are under consideration in the prescribed manner, but not yet approved for use, as well as unregistered medications, may be used for a person's treatment only after obtaining his or her written consent. In the interests of treating a person with coronavirus disease (COVID-19), confirmed by laboratory testing, in accordance with the protocol of medical care approved by the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare. The procedure for prescribing and using the medications referred to in part four of this article shall be established by the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare. It is prohibited to conduct a research experiment on patients, prisoners or war prisoners, as well as a therapeutic experiment on people whose disease is not directly related to the purpose of the experiment. The sterilisation methods may be applied at the request of a full-aged patient in healthcare facilities on the medical indications established by the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare. The operation of induced termination of a pregnancy (abortion) can be performed during pregnancy for a period not exceeding 12 weeks. The state shall provide the prevention of rare (orphan) diseases and delivery of appropriate medical care to citizens suffering from such diseases. Medical workers shall be prohibited from carrying out euthanasia – the intentional acceleration of the death or killing of an incurable patient. The procedure for hospitalisation and treatment of such patients, including compulsory, shall be established by legislative acts of Ukraine. The procedure for providing citizens with medications and immunobiological medicines free of charge or on favourable terms shall be determined by the legislation of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall approve the list of medications, medical devices and auxiliary appliance purchased from the state budget for the implementation of programmes and implementation of centralised healthcare measures. The central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare shall regularly inform healthcare workers. Maternal and child healthcare is supported by the organisation of a wide network of women's health, medical-genetic and other clinics, maternity hospitals, sanatoriums and rest homes for pregnant women and mothers with children. A woman is given the right to decide on motherhood on her own. The state shall provide children under the age of three with high-quality baby formulas and other baby food products made mainly on an industrial basis from ecologically clean raw materials. Children with physical or mental disabilities requiring medical and social assistance and special care may be kept in infant homes, orphanages and other specialised children's facilities at public expense. Sanatorium-resort facilities carry out their activities in the manner prescribed by the legislation on resorts. State control over medical-sanitary support of the population shall be exercised by healthcare authorities. The procedure for medical evaluation to determine temporary labour capacity loss of citizens shall be determined by the central executive authority. Medical and social evaluation of persistent vital activity limitations shall be carried out by medical and social expert boards. The military medical examination shall determine the suitability for military service of conscripts, servicemen, persons subject to conscription and reservists. The procedure for arrangement and conduct of the medical andsocial examination shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Post-mortem examinations are performed to identify the causes and mechanisms of the patient's death. The procedure for conducting a post-mortem examination shall be determined by the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare. If the citizen disagrees with the conclusions of the state medical examination, the alternative medical (medico-social, military-medical) examination or a post mortem examination may be carried out. Folk medicine (healing) shall mean the methods of health improvement, preventive measures, diagnosis and treatment, based on the experience of many generations of people. Persons who do not have special medical education, registered in the manner prescribed by law as individual entrepreneurs and have received a special permit to practice folk medicine will have the right to practice it. Qualification requirements for individual entrepreneurs engaged in folk medicine shall be determined by the central executive authority. The special permit for practising folk medicine (healing) may be revoked based on: healer's statement on the special permit cancellation; termination of the individual entrepreneur's activity. The special permit may be re-issued if the individual entrepreneurs has changed the location or place of practising. It is forbidden to practise healing with the use of mass media. Free use of social, environmental and special medical information necessary for the performance of professional duties. Free use of housing with lighting and heating within the norms established by law for those who live and work in rural areas and urban settlements. Establishment of official salaries (tariff rates) in state healthcare facilities on the basis of the Unified Tariff Grid. Doctors of district hospitals, chief physicians and physicians of outpatient clinics located in rural areas. Medical workers of emergency (ambulance) brigades of emergency medical care and disaster medicine centres. Free parking of vehicles in specially designated places in the case of equipment of a vehicle driven by a medical worker with a special identification mark. The list of positions of professionals with higher non-medical education in healthcare facilities shall be determined by the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of public healthcare. Medical, pharmaceutical and rehabilitation specialists shall be obliged to: a) foster the protection and promotion of human health, prevention and treatment of disease, provide timely and qualified medical, healthcare and rehabilitation care. Ukraine is a participant in international cooperation in the field of healthcare. Ukraine is a member of the World Health Organization (WHO) and other international organisations. The provisions of this paragraph shall apply exclusively to pharmaceutical workers. Unlawful restrictions of international cooperation by state bodies and officials may be appealed in the prescribed manner. The central executive authority shaping and implementing state policies in the field of healthcare shall have the right to enter into Controlled Access Agreements with the Applicant. The Controlled Access Agreement shall provide for the following: quantity of medications to be supplied by the applicant to the territory of Ukraine. Conditions regarding the price of medications. Sources of financing the purchase of medications that are the subject of the Controlled Access agreement. Procedure for terminating the Controlled access Agreement. Officials participating in the negotiations on concluding Controlled Access Agreements, enter into and/or execute such agreements, shall be responsible for the illegal disclosure of restricted information. The central executive authority shaping and implementing state policies in the field of healthcare shall publish on its official website the information on the international non-proprietary name, trade name, pharmaceutical form and dosage.