The Labour Code of Ukraine defines the legal bases and guarantees for Ukrainian citizens to exercise the right to dispose of their abilities for productive and creative work. The state creates conditions for effective employment of the population, promotes employment, training and professional development, and provides retraining of persons released as a result of transition to a market economy. Any discrimination in the sphere of work is prohibited, in particular violation of the principle of equality of rights and opportunities. Labour legislation regulates labour relations of employees of all enterprises, institutions, organisations. Particularities of labour of members of cooperatives and their associations, collective agricultural enterprises, farms, employees of enterprises with foreign investment are determined by the legislation. Article 7. Particularities of labour regulation of certain categories of employees. Article 8. Regulation of labour relations of citizens who work outside their states. Article 9. Conditions of labour contracts that worsen the position of employees in comparison with the labour legislation of Ukraine are invalid. The content of collective contract is determined by the parties within their competence. Mutual obligations of the parties to regulate production, labour, socio-economic relations are established in the collective contract. The collective contract may include additional, in comparison with the current legislation and agreements, guarantees, social benefits. A primary trade union organisation that refuses to participate in a joint representative body is deprived of the right to represent interests of workers.  collective contracts are subject to notification registration by local executive authorities or local self-government bodies. The procedure for registering collective contracts is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Conditions of a collective contract that worsen, in comparison with the current legislation and agreements, the situation of employees are invalid. An employment contract is an agreement between an employee and the owner of an enterprise, institution, organisation or a body. The scope of application of the contract is determined by the laws of Ukraine. Unreasonable refusal to hire is prohibited. Requirements regarding the age, level of education, health status of the employee may be established by the legislation. An employment contract is usually concluded in written form. A citizen is obliged to present a passport or other identity document, work record book and in cases provided for by the legislation – also a document on education (speciality, qualification), on state of health, a relevant military and registration document and other documents. The owner has the right to impose restrictions on joint work at the same enterprise, institution, organisation for persons who are close relatives or in-law relatives. It is prohibited to require from persons who apply for work information about their party and nationality affiliation, origin, registration of place of residence or stay. The owner or his authorised body must familiarise the employee with the internal labour regulations and collective contract. Familiarisation can take place in the form of distance instruction or through training in safe working methods on a specific technical equipment. An employment contract, by agreement of the parties, may provide for additional labour safety conditions. An employee should carry out the work entrusted to him personally and has no right to delegate its performance to another person. It is forbidden to demand the performance of work that is not conditioned of the employment contract. In connection with changes in the organisation of production and labour, it is allowed to change significant working conditions while continuing to work in the same speciality, qualification or position. Temporary transfer of an employee to another job, not conditioned by the employment contract is allowed only by his/her consent. Pregnant women, women with a child with a disability or a child under the age of six cannot be transferred without their consent. Downtime is a stoppage of work caused by lack of organisational or technical conditions necessary to perform the work. Employee's refusal to transfer to work in another locality together with the enterprise, institution, organisation, as well as refusal to continue work in connection with a change in significant working conditions does not terminate the employment contract. In case of change of the owner of enterprise, reorganization (merger, acquisition, division, branching off, transformation) operation of employment contract of the employee continues. Termination of an employment contract at the initiative of theOwner or his authorized body is possible only in case of reduction of the number of employees. An employee shall be entitled to terminate labour agreement concluded for indefinite period having notified the owner or body authorised by him/her thereon in writing no later than two weeks before. In case the employee's letter of resignation was caused by impossibility to continue working (movement to new place of residence, transfer of spouse to job in other locality, pregnancy, care of disabled child, retirement, competitive employment, as well as for other good reasons), the owner of the contract shall terminate it within the period requested by the employee. An employment contract concluded for an indefinite period, as well as a fixed-term employment contract before expiration of its validity period, may be terminated by the owner or his authorized body only in the following cases. Changes in organization of production and labour, including liquidation, reorganization, bankruptcy or re-profiling of an enterprise, institution, organization, reduction of the number or staff of employees. Dismissal of an employee during the period of his temporary disability (except for dismissal under clause 5 of this Article), as well as during the employee's vacation, is not allowed. This rule does not apply in case of complete liquidation of the enterprise, institution, organization. Peculiarities of dismissal of certain categories of employees are established by the law that regulates their status. The owner or his authorized body, at his own initiative, is obliged to terminate the employment contract with the official in case of repeated violation of requirements of the legislation. Preferential right to remain at work when employees are released due to changes in the organization of production and labour is given to employees with higher qualifications and labour productivity. Preference to remain at work may also be granted to other categories of employees, if it is provided for by the legislation of Ukraine. Conditions for restoration of social benefits that employees had before dismissal are determined by the collective contract. Termination of an employment contract at the initiative of the owner or his authorized body upon prior consent of the elected body of the primary trade union organization (trade union representative) Consideration of a submission in the absence of an employee is allowed only upon his written application. If an employee or his representative did not appear at the meeting, consideration of the application would be postponed until the next meeting. Decision of the elected body of the primary trade union organization (trade union representative) to refuse to give consent to terminate the employment contract should be justified.  termination of an employment contract at the initiative of the owner or his authorized body without the prior consent of the elected body of the primary trade union organization (trade union representative) is allowed in the following cases: liquidation of an enterprise, institution, organization. Dismissal from a combined job in connection with employment of another employee who is not a part-time worker. Employee is paid severance pay in the amount of not less than his average monthly earnings. Termination of an employment contract with the head at the request of the elected body of the primary trade union organization (trade union representative) If owner or a body authorised by him or the head in respect of whom the requirement for termination of the employment contract has been submitted does not agree with this requirement, he may appeal the decision. Suspension of employees from work by the owner or by a body authorised by him is allowed in the following cases: appearing at work in a state of intoxication; refusal or evasion of mandatory medical examinations, training, instruction and testing of knowledge on labour protection and fire protection. Work record books are the main document about the employee's labour activity. Employees are personally warned about the upcoming dismissal not later than two months in advance. When dismissing employees in cases of changes in the organisation of production and labour, the preferential right to remain at work is taken into account. An employee, at his own discretion, applies for help to the state employment service or finds a job independently in case of absence of work on the relevant profession or speciality. The standard working hours of employees may not exceed 40 hours per week. Enterprises and organisations may set lower working hours standard than provided for in Part 1 of this Article when concluding a collective agreement. Trade unions have the right to make proposals to the relevant authorities to postpone or suspend or cancel measures related to the dismissal of employees. Reduced working hours shall be established for the following categories: 1) for employees aged 16 to 18 – 36 hours a week, for persons aged 15 to 16 (students aged 14 to 15 working within the period of vacations) – 24 hours perweek. A five-day working week with two weekend days is established for employees. Reduced working hours may be established at the expense of own funds of enterprises and organisations for women having children under fourteen or a child with disabilities. Night time is considered to be from 10 pm to 6 am. Pregnant women and women who have children under the age of 3 are not allowed to work at night. Persons with disabilities may be involved in work only upon their consent and if this is not in conflict with the medical recommendations for them. Part-time work shall put no limitations of labour rights of employees. The appointment of an employee for two shifts in a row is prohibited. Flexible working hours is a form of labour organisation allowing the establishment of a different work mode than that defined by the internal labour regulation rules. The employee becomes aware of such an order within two days from the date of its acceptance but before the introduction of flexible working hours. In the case of epidemic and pandemic threats and/or in case of armed aggression threat, man-made, natural or other emergencies, flexibleworking hours may be established. The owner of the enterprise, institution, organisation or their authorised body approves the working hours of the employee. The introduction of flexible working hours does not entail changes in standardisation, remuneration and does not affect the scope of labour rights of employees. The requirement for the owner or his authorised body to notify the employee of a change in the work mode established by this Article does not apply. Performing home-based work does not entail changes in standardisation, remuneration and does not affect the scope of labour rights of employees. In case of impossibility to perform work at the attached workplace for reasons beyond their control, the employee has the right to change the workplace. The owner or their authorised body independently decides how to entrust the work to the employee. Remote work is a form of work organisation wherein work is performed by an employee outside the work premises or the territory of the owner. Pregnant women, employees who have a child under three or care of a child according to a medical conclusion until they reach the age of six may work from home. An employee who performs remote work is guaranteed a period of free time for rest (disconnection period) The employee may interrupt any information and telecommunication with the owner or their authorised body, and this is not considered a violation of the employment contract or labour discipline. Pregnant women, employees who have a child under three or care for a child according to a medical conclusion until they reach the age of six may work remotely. As a rule, overtime works are not allowed. Overtime work is considered to be work beyond the established working day. The owner or their authorised body may use overtime work only in exceptional cases specified by law and in Part 3 of this Article. It shall be prohibited to engage the following categories of people in overtime work: pregnant women and women having children under three. Employees are given a break for rest and meals lasting no more than two hours. Overtime work shall not exceed four hours for each employee for two consecutive days and 120 hours per year. Women having children aged three to 14 or a child with disabilities may be only engaged in overtime work subject to their consent. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may recommend the owners of enterprises, institutions, and organisations to move weekends and working days under the conditions established by the legislation. The owner or their authorised body issues an order on moving the weekend days. Uninterrupted weekly rest period must be at least forty-two hours. Work is also not carried out on religious holidays: 7 January and 25 December – Christmas one day (Sunday) – Easter. At the request of religious communities of other (non-Orthodox) denominations registered in Ukraine, the management of enterprises, institutions, organisations provide up to three days off during the year. The annual additional leave period, the conditions and procedure for granting them are established by regulatory acts of Ukraine. Annual additional leaves are granted to the employees under the following conditions: 1) for work in harmful and difficult working conditions; 2) for the special nature of work; 3) in other cases provided by law. The order of granting leave is determined by schedules approved by the owner or their authorised body in agreement with the elected body of the primary trade union organisation. The specific period of granting annual leave within the established schedule is agreed between the employee and the owner. Splitting annual leave of any duration is allowed at the request of the employee, provided that the main continuous part of it will be at least 14 calendar days. Full annual leave is granted before the beginning of a six-month period of continuous work after the transfer. The length of service that entitles to annual basic and additional leave includes the time that they have not used for leave at their previous workplace. It is prohibited not to grant full annual leave for two consecutive years, as well as not to Grant it during the working year to persons under eighteen years. The length of service that entitles to additional annual leave (Article 76 of this Code) includes the following: 1) the time of actual work with harmful, difficult conditions or with a special nature of work if the employee is employed in these conditions not less than half of the working day established for employees of this production, shop, profession, or position. The working time of pregnant women transferred based on a medical conclusion to easy work wherein they are not affected by adverse production factors. Part of annual leave may be substituted with compensation at the employee's will. In case of employee’s death, compensation for unused days of annual leaves, as well as additional leave for employees having children or major child with childhood disabilities of Subgroup A, Group I, shall be paid to heirs. For persons under the age of eighteen, the substitution of all kinds of leaves with compensation is not allowed. Temporary standards are established for the period of development of certain works in the absence of approved regulatory materials for labour standardisation. One-time standards are set for individual works that are of a one-time nature (unscheduled, emergency). Working conditions must be taken into account when developing production standards (time standards) The minimum wage is the minimum remuneration amount established by law for the monthly (hourly) rate of work performed by the employee. Minimum wage is a state social guarantee, mandatory throughout Ukraine for enterprises, institutions, organisations of all forms of ownership and management. The payment rating system includes salary scale, base salary, official salary schemes and professional standards (qualification characteristics) The minimum official salary (base salary) is set at an amount not less than the subsistence level set for able-bodied persons on January 1 of the calendar year. Remuneration of employees is carried out by hourly, piece-rate or other remuneration systems. Payment can be made based on the results of individual and collective work. Remuneration of employees is carried out as a matter of priority. Owner or their authorised body or individual has no right to unilaterally make decisions on remuneration that deteriorate the conditions established by law, contracts, collective agreements. Part-time employees receive a wage for the work actually performed. Heavy work, work with harmful and dangerous working conditions and conditions of increased health risk subject to higher wages. Employees are paid extra for combining professions (positions) or performing the duties of a temporarily absent employee. Overtime work is paid a surcharge of 100 per cent of the base salary of an employee of the appropriate qualification. Night work (Article 54) is paid in the increased amount established by the general, branch and regional agreements. Payment for non-fulfilment of production standards is made for the work actually performed. The monthly wage of an employee shall not be lower than two-thirds of the base salary of the category (official salary) established for them. The product failure that occurred due to a hidden defect in the processed material is paid to this employee along with suitable products. Downtime by the fault of the employee is not paid. Wage is paid to employees regularly on working days within the terms set by the collective agreement or regulatory act of the employer. If the day of salary payment coincides with a weekend day, holiday or day off, wage shall be paid the day before. In the case of a dispute over the amount due to the employee upon dismissal, the owner or their authorised body shall pay the amount not disputed by them. Employees dismissed as a result of their election to elective positions are given the previous job (position) after the expiration of their term of office. Employees involved in the performance of duties under the laws of Ukraine "On General Military Duty and Military Service" and "On Alternative (Non-Military) Service" are provided with guarantees. Employees have the right to reimbursement of expenses and other compensation related to the transfer, acceptance or assignment to another location. The guarantees specified in Part 3 of this Article, in terms of job or position retention, do not apply to persons who held elected positions in local authorities and whose term of office has expired. Employees assigned to business trips are paid for the work performed according to the conditions specified in the employment contract or collective agreement. The job (position) is retained for the employees during the whole time of the business trip. Guarantees for employees-authors of inventions, utility models, industrial designs, and innovation proposals. Deductions from wage can be made only in cases provided by the legislation of Ukraine. Deductions for unworked days of leave can not be made if the employee is dismissed on the grounds specified in Clauses 3, 5, 6 of Article 36 and Clauses 1, 2 and 5 of Article 40 of this Code. Employees are financially liable for damage caused to the enterprise, institution, organisation as a result of the violation of their duties. This liability is usually limited to a certain part of the employee's earnings and shall not exceed the full amount of damage, except as provided by law. Liability can be imposed independently on bringing the employee to disciplinary, administrative or criminal liability. According to the law, employees are financially liable in the full amount of damage caused by their fault to the enterprise, institution, organisation. Employee is fully liable for damage caused in the performance of duties; 7) the damage caused off duty; 8) an official guilty of illegal dismissal or transfer of an employee. The extent of financial liability of employees for damage caused to the enterprise, institution, organisation by theft, intentional damage, shortage or loss of certain property and other valuables is established by law. The amount of damage caused is determined by the actual losses, accounting data and the inventory value (prime cost) of tangible assets. In case of theft, shortage, intentional destruction or intentional property damage, the amount of damage is determined by the prices in force in the area on the day of compensation. In other cases, compensation for damages is made by filing a lawsuit to the regional, city or city district court by the owner or their authorised body. The court may reduce the amount of compensation for damage caused by the employee, depending on their property status, except in cases where the damage is caused by criminal acts of the employee committed for selfish purposes. The owner or their authorised body must properly arrange the work of employees, create conditions for productivity growth. Incentives are announced by order in a solemn ceremony and are entered in the employment records of employees according to the rules of their maintenance. Advantages and benefits for employees who successfully and conscientiously perform their duties are provided. Only one of the following sanctions can be applied to the employee for labour discipline violation: 1) reprimand; 2) employment termination. Disciplinary sanction may be appealed by an employee in the manner prescribed by applicable law. If an employee is not subjected to a new disciplinary sanction within one year from the date of its imposition, they are considered to have not had a disciplinary sanction. The owner or their authorised body has the right to transfer the issue of violation of labour discipline for consideration by the labour collective. When concluding a remote employment contract, the owner or their authorised body shall systematically instruct (train) the employee on labour protection and fire safety. Such instruction (training) can be conducted remotely, using modern information and communication technologies, in particular by video communication. Non-transfer of new machine samples and other means to the production and the prohibition of introducing new technologies unequal to the labour protection requirements. New regulations, revision and repeal of existing state intersectoral and sectoral regulations on labour protection are carried out by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of occupational safety. Standards, technical conditions and other regulatory and technical documents for means of labour and technological processes shall include labour protection requirements. The owner or their authorised body develops and implements comprehensive measures for labour protection with the participation of trade unions according to the Law of Ukraine "On Labour Protection". The action plan for labour Protection is included in the collective agreement. Funds and necessary materials are allocated in the prescribed manner for labourprotection measures. Employees working in the cold season outdoors or indoors in unheated rooms, loaders and some other categories of employees are provided with special breaks for heating and rest included in working hours. The owner or their authorised body must investigate and keep records of accidents, occupational diseases, and emergencies at work. It shall be prohibited to employ women in arduous work and work with harmful or dangerous working conditions, as well as in underground work. Engaging women in work involving lifting and moving things, the weight of which exceeds the established limits for them. Restrictions of part 1 of this Article shall not apply to women working on enterprises where the members of only one family are employed. Women with children under the age of 3 shall be transferred to another work if it is impossible to perform the previous work while maintaining the average earnings from the previous job. If the earnings of the persons transferred on easier work referred to in parts 1 and 3 of this Article are higher than the earnings received before the transfer, they shall be paid the actual earnings. Childcare leave to care of a child before reaching the age of 3 and unpaid leave (parts 3 and 6 of Article 179 of this Code) shall be included in both general and continuous length of service. Employees who adopted an orphan or children deprived of parental care shall be granted one-time paid leave for the period of 56 calendar days. A working woman having two or more children under the age of 15, or a child with a disability, as well as a person who took care of a child or a person with childhood disabilities of Group I Subgroup A, shall be granted an additional paid annual leave of 10 calendar days regardless of holidays and days off. Breastfeeding breaks shall be included in working hours and paid at the average salary. Dismissal of pregnant women and women having children under the age of three (under age of 6 – part 6 of Article 179) shall be prohibited, except for the cases of full liquidation of the enterprise, institution or organisation. Providing Pregnant Women and Women with Children Under 14 with Sanatorium and Rest Home Vouchers and Material Assistance. Students of general education schools, vocational schools, and secondary special institutions may be engaged in easy work that does not have any harmful health implications and does not disrupt the studying process. The employment of persons under the age of 18 in arduous work and work with harmful or dangerous working conditions, as well as in underground work, shall be prohibited. Full annual leaves for employees under the age of 18 in the first year of employment shall be provided upon their request. Students of general secondary schools, vocational schools and special secondary schools working in their free time shall be proportionate to the time of such work. Enterprises may provide additional payments to the students' salaries. Working-age youth who are citizens of Ukraine aged 15–28 years after graduation or termination of studies in secondary, vocational and higher education institutions. Young graduates of state educational institutions that had previously requested by enterprises, institutions and organisations shall be provided with a job in their field for the duration of at least three years. Theoretical classes and industrial training for training new employees directly in the workplace shall be conducted within the working hours established by labour legislation. Successful completion of industrial training, general education and professional training, and the successful completion of training by employees in educational institutions shall be taken into account for advanced training or promotion. Employees who studying successfully in evening secondary (shift) schools, classes, groups with full-time or part-time forms of education in secondary schools, shall be provided with a reduced working week for one working day or the corresponding number of working hours. Such employees shall be dismissed from work for no more than 36 working days in a six-day working week. With a five-dayWorking week, the number of days off varies depending on the duration of the work shift. Full-time annual leave for employees successfully studying on-the-job in educational institutions. Additional paid leave for the preparation and passing of exams shall be granted to employees successfully attending evening classes of vocational schools. Employees studying at higher education institutions with evening and distance learning shall be provided with additional leave with respect to their studies, as well as other benefits provided by law. Employees admitted to the entrance exams to graduate school with or without on-the-job studies shall be provided with once time additional paid leave per year. Different duration of leave in connection with studies may be prescribed by the law for employees studying at higher education institutions with evening and distance learning. Employees studying full-time at graduate school, at their request and during the four years of training, shall be provided with one day off per week, with a payment of 50 per cent of the average salary. Travel expenses for the preparation and defense of a diploma project (work) or to pass state exams shall be covered in the same amount. Labour disputes commissions may be established in workshops and other similar subdivisions. The number of employees in the composition of the labour disputes commission of the enterprise should be not less than a half of its composition. The procedure for election, number, composition and term of office of the commission shall be determined by the general meeting (conference) of the personnel. The labour disputes commission has the right to call witnesses, instruct specialists to conduct technical, accounting and other inspections. Disputes shall be considered in the presence of the employee who submitted the application, representatives of the owner or his/her authorised body. The commission makes decisions by a majority vote of its members present at the meeting. In case of disagreement with the decision of the labour disputes commission, the employee, owner or his/her authorised body may appeal its decision to the court within ten days from the date of delivery of an extract from the minutes of the commission meeting or its copy. The omission of the specified term shall not be a ground for refusal of accepting the application. District, city district, city, or inter-district courts shall consider labour disputes on applications from: 1) employees of enterprises, institutions, organisations, where labour disputes commissions are not elected; 2) employees to resume work regardless of the grounds for termination of employment, change the date and wording of the reason for dismissal. Pregnant women, women with children under the age of three or a child with a disability, and single mothers (parents) – having a child under 14. Young specialists graduated from a higher educational institution. Other persons the owner or his/her authorised body is obliged to enter into an employment contract with. When delivering a decision on reinstatement, the body considering the labour dispute shall simultaneously decide on the payment of the employee's average earnings during the forced absence. In the event of a delay in the issuance of an employment record book due to the fault of the owner or his/her authorised body, the employee shall be paid the average salary for the entire period. If there are grounds for reinstatement of an employee who was dismissed in connection with a report made by such employee or a person close to the employee about possible facts of corruption or corruption-related offenses, other violations of the Law of Ukraine “On Prevention of Corruption” by another person, and if he/she refuses such renewal. The decision to reinstate an illegally dismissed or transferred employee, made by the body reviewing the labour dispute, shall be subject to immediate execution. A court shall impose on an official guilty of unlawful dismissal or transfer of an employee to another job, the obligation to cover the damages caused to the enterprise, institution, organisation. When considering labour disputes related to monetary claims, the body considering the dispute shall have the right to decide to pay the employee appropriate amounts. The body reviewing the labour dispute shall recognise the employee as dismissed under clause 1 Article 40 of this Code. The benefits and compensations provided for in Article 49-3 of this code shall apply to dismissed employees. Citizens of Ukraine have the right on the basis of free will without any prior permission to create trade unions to represent, exercise and protect their labour and social-economic rights and interests. The state shall recognise trade unions as authorised representatives of employees and defenders of their labour, social- economic rights. The rights of trade unions and their associations are determined by the Constitution of Ukraine. Primary trade union organisations shall exercise their powers through elected bodies in accordance with the charter (regulations) In organisations where elected bodies are not formed – through a trade union representative authorised to represent the interests of trade union members. Article 247. Powers of the Elected Body of the Primary Trade Union Organisation at the Enterprise, Institution, Organisation. 9) decide on the request to the owner or his/her authorised body to terminate the employment agreement (contract) with the head of the enterprise, institution, organisation. 10) provide consent or refuse to provide consent to the termination of the employment contract with an employee, who is a member of a trade union. Elected bodies of a trade union organisation operating at an enterprise, institution, organisation also have other rights provided by the legislation of Ukraine. Members of elected bodies of trade unions of enterprises, institutions and organisations, higher trade union bodies, as well as authorised representatives of these bodies have the right to: 1) freely visit and inspect workplaces.  Buildings, premises, structures intended for cultural, educational, health, physical culture and sports work among employees of the enterprise, institution, organisation and members of their families, as well as health camps may be transferred on a contractual basis for use by trade unions, enterprises, institutions, organisations. Allocation of Funds By Enterprises, Institutions, Organisations To Primary Trade Union Organisations For Cultural, Physical Culture and Health Work. Owners or their authorised bodies shall allocate funds to primary trade unions. Dismissal of members of the elected trade union body of the enterprise, institution, organisation (including structural units), its leaders, trade union representative (where the elected body is not elected), except for the cases of general order, shall be allowed with the prior consent of their elected body. Members of elected trade unions who were not relieved of their production or official duties shall be provided with a day off while maintaining the average salary. The provisions of this Article regarding the specifics of disciplinary liability and dismissal, as well as the provisions of parts 2 and 3 of Article 49-4 of this Code, shall not apply to prosecutors, police officers and employees of the National Police, Security Service of Ukraine. The powers of the personnel shall be determined by law. The brigade leader shall be elected at the meeting of the brigade personnel (by secret or open ballot) and shall be approved by the head of the unit, which such brigades are part of. The owner or his/her authorised body of the enterprise shall be responsible to the team for creating proper conditions for highly productive work. The main sources of funds for compulsory state social insurance are considered the contributions of owners of enterprises, institutions, organisations or their authorised bodies. Employees and their family members shall be entitled to a state pension of old age, disability, in connection with the loss of a breadwinner, as well as for years of service. Local state administrations and councils within the relevant territory shall: ensure the implementation of state policy in the field of labour protection; form, with the participation of trade unions, programmes of safety measures, occupational health and the working environment. Officials of public authorities and local governments, enterprises, institutions and organisations guilty of violating labour legislation shall be liable in accordance with applicable law. The fines imposed by part 2 of this Article are considered financial sanctions and do not belong to the administrative and economic sanctions defined in Section 27 of the Commercial Code of Ukraine. If a legal entity or an individual entrepreneur using hired labour pays 50 per cent of the fine within 10 banking days from the date of delivery of the resolution to impose a fine, such resolution shall be deemed executed. The fines specified in paragraph 2, part 2 of this Article may be imposed by the central executive authority without state supervision (control) on the basis of a court decision on employment with an employee who performed work without concluding an employment contract. The fine shall not exempt from the elimination of violations of labour legislation. The terms defined in Articles 233of this Code shall be extended for the duration of such lockdown.