The rules of criminal proceedings in the territory of Ukraine shall be defined exclusively by the criminal procedure legislation of Ukraine. The objectives of criminal. proceedings shall be the protection of individuals, society and the state from criminal offences. The provision of prompt, comprehensive and impartial. investigation and trial in order that everyone who has committed a criminal. offence were prosecuted in proportion to his/her guilt. 4) inquiry shall mean a form of pre-trial investigation where criminal misdemeanours are investigated. 4-1 an inquiring officer shall mean an official of the inquiry unit of the National Police, security body, a body controlling observance of tax legislation, or a body of the State Bureau of Investigations. 5) pre- trial investigation shall mean stage in criminal proceedings which begins from moment information on a criminal offence is entered in the Unified Register of Pre-trial Investigations. Criminal prosecution shall mean a stage in the criminal proceedings, which commences when a person is informed of an allegedly committed criminal offence. Public prosecutor shall mean person holding the position provided for by Article 15 of the Law of Ukraine “On the Prosecutor's Office” Minimum wage shall mean sum of money equal to the monthly minimum wage as of 1 January of the calendar year. The parties to the criminal proceedings shall mean as follows: for the prosecution, they shall mean an investigator, chief officer of pre-trial investigation agency, a public prosecutor, as well as the victim, his/her representative and legal agent in cases specified by this Code. For the defence, the defence shall mean a suspect, the accused (defendant), a convict, the acquitted. The court of cassation shall mean the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Criminal proceedings in the territory of Ukraine shall be conducted based on grounds and under the procedure established by this Code, irrespective of the place where a criminal offence was committed. Other terms used in this Code shall be defined by special rules of this Code and other laws of Ukraine. Wherever an international treaty, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, extends Ukrainian jurisdiction to servicemen of the Military Forces of Ukraine who are deployed in the Territory of another state, proceedings in respect of criminal offences committed by such serviceman shall be carried out as prescribed by the Code. The admissibility of evidence shall be determined by the provisions of this Code that were in force at the time of their receipt. Criminal proceedings in respect of the individual who enjoys diplomatic immunity may be conducted in accordance with this Code only upon consent of such individual or of the competent authority of the state (international organisation) he represents. Criminal proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the principle of the rule of law, under which a human being, his/her rights and freedoms are the highest values. Prosecution shall use all possibilities provided for by law to observe the rights of a suspect or accused (in particular, the rights to protection, access to justice, secrecy) No one may be given privilege or restricted in procedural rights on the grounds of race, colour, political, religious, or any other beliefs. In the course of criminal proceedings, in cases and under procedure established by this Code, certain categories of individuals (minors, foreign nationals, mentally and physically disabled people, etc.) shall enjoy additional guarantees. It shall be prohibited to subject an individual to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. In the course of criminal proceedings, everyone shall be guaranteed confidentiality of correspondence, telephone conversations, cable, and other forms of communication. Interference in the confidentiality of communication shall be possible only upon court’s ruling in cases prescribed in this Code. Everyone kept in custody or otherwise deprived of liberty in excess of the time prescribed by this Code shall be promptly released. No one shall be required to prove his/her innocence of having committed a criminal offence. Suspicion and charges shall not be based on evidence obtained illegally. A person whose criminal guilt has not been found in a valid judgement of conviction shall be treated as an innocent one. Temporary arrest of property without court decision shall be tolerated. Criminal proceedings shall be conducted on the basis of adversarial approach envisaging independent assertion by the accusation and defence party of their legal positions, rights, freedoms and legitimate interests. Parties to criminal proceedings shall have equal rights with regard to collecting and producing items, documents, other evidence, motions, complaints, as well as to enjoy other procedural rights provided for by this Code. Public prosecutor shall notify a person of a suspicion of committing a criminal offence, submit an indictment, and prosecute on behalf of the state in court. The court while being neutral and impartial shall ensure the necessary conditions for the exercising by the parties of their procedural rights. Article 24. The right to challenge procedural decisions, acts or omissions. Criminal proceedings such as private prosecution shall be initiated only upon the request of the victim. Dropping charges by the victim or his/her representative in cases specified in this Code shall be the unconditional ground for closing criminal proceedings. Personal notes, letters, the content of personal telephone conversations, cable and other communications may be read in open court session. The court shall conduct criminal proceedings in camera with full observance of rules set forth hereof. Only parties and other participants to the criminal proceedings can attend closed court sessions. Photographing, filming, video recording in a courtroom, as well as radio and TV broadcasting of trial, and also audio recording by stationary equipment shall be allowed only upon permission of the court. Criminal proceedings shall be conducted in state language. Everyone shall have the right for a charge to be subject of a court hearing within the shortest possible time or criminal proceedings concerned closed. Only court shall administer justice in criminal proceedings in accordance with rules prescribed by this Code. Refusal to administer justice shall not be permitted. Criminal proceedings in a court of the first instance in respect of crimes for the commission of which punishment of life imprisonment is envisaged shall be conducted by a panel of three judges, and upon the motion of the accused, by jury consisting of two judges and three jurors. In cases provided for by this Code, criminal proceedings under cassation procedure shall be. conducted by the Judicial Chamber of the Criminal Court of Cassation. Criminal proceedings in the High Anti-Corruption Court during the pre-trial investigation shall be conducted by the investigating judge alone. In the case of appeal against its rulings under appellate procedure, it shall be considered by a panel of at least three judges. Only a judge authorised in accordance with the Law of Ukraine “On the Judiciary and the Status of Judges” to conduct criminal proceedings against minors shall preside at the court hearing. Criminal proceedings shall be conducted by the court within whose territorial jurisdiction the criminal offence has been committed. This paragraph shall not apply to criminal proceedings which fall within the substantive jurisdiction of the High Anti-Corruption Court in accordance with the rules of Article 33-1 hereof. If a criminal offence, the pre-trial investigation of which was conducted. by the territorial branch of the National Anti- Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, has been. committed within the territorial jurisdiction of that branch, the criminal proceeding shall be. conducted by a court territorially closest to the court. High Anti-Corruption Court is responsible for criminal proceedings concerning corruption offences. Criminal proceedings in the cassation instance shall be conducted by the Supreme Court. The court that made the decision under review, and on the grounds specified by clause 2, part 2, Article 459 hereof, shall conduct the proceedings. In exceptional cases, a criminal proceeding may be transferred to another court at the place of residence of the accused, majority of victims or witnesses. In that case the court judgments are to be appealed to the court of appeals, which shall be determined by the panel of judges of the Criminal Court of Cassation of the Supreme Court. The court, which has taken charge of a criminal proceeding from another court, shall commence judicial proceedings from the stage of preliminary case hearing. Disputes between courts with regard to jurisdiction matters shall not be permitted. Files of criminal proceedings, complaints, applications, motions and other procedural documents stipulated in the law which are filed with the court and which may be subjects to judicial proceedings shall be subject to compulsory registration. Appointment of a judge (substitute judge, investigating judge) or a panel of judges for a specific court hearing shall be supported by the court’s automated workflow system. Prosecution Article 36. Public prosecutor in the course of performing his duties in compliance with the requirements of this Code shall be independent in his procedural activities. 4) assign investigator, pre-trial investigation agency to conduct within a time limit set by a public prosecutor. 5) assign the conduct of investigatory (search) actions to the respective criminal intelligence units. 7) overturn illegitimate and ungrounded rulings of investigators. 10) support or refuse to support the motions of investigator addressed to investigating judge. The right to file an appellate or cassation complaint, a motion on review of a court judgment upon discovery of new circumstances shall be vested in officials of the higher level of public prosecution. Participation of a public prosecutor in court shall be mandatory, except as provided otherwise by this Code. Officials of a higher-level prosecutor's office may participate in court proceedings. It is prohibited to assign the pre-trial investigation of a criminal offence committed by a Member of Parliament of Ukraine to agencies other than the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the central office of the State Bureau of Investigations. Prosecutor General, head of an oblast prosecutor's office and head of a district prosecutor’s office have the right to revoke illegal and unfounded decisions of investigators and lower-level public prosecutors. Pre-trial investigation shall be conducted by investigative units of: a) National Police agencies; b) security agencies; c) agencies supervising compliance with the tax legislation; d) bodies of the State Bureau of Investigations; 2) detective unit, internal control unit of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. Chief officer of the inquiry agency shall organise the inquiry. Investigator shall be liable for legality and timeliness of the conduct of procedural actions. Investigator has the right to: 1) start pre-trial investigation provided grounds specified in this Code are present; 2) conduct investigatory (search) actions. Inquiring officer shall be liable for the legality and timeliness of the inquiry. Investigator shall follow the instructions and orders provided by the public prosecutor filed in written form. Government authorities, local governments, enterprises, institutions, officials and individuals shall execute legitimate demands and procedural decisions of the investigator. Government authorities, local governments, enterprises, institutions and organisations, officials and individuals shall execute legitimate demands and procedural decisions of the inquiring officer. Officers of criminal intelligence units (except for the detective unit, the internal control unit of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine) shall not conduct procedural actions in criminal proceedings. Rights include right to presence of defence counsel during interviews and other procedural actions, refuse from services of counsel at any time in the course of criminal proceedings. Right to have a defence counsel and consultation with him prior to the first and each subsequent interview under conditions ensuring confidentiality of communication, and also upon the first interview. The accused shall also be entitled to: 1) participate in the examination of witnesses for the prosecution or request them to be examined; 2) collect and produce evidence to the court; 3) express in court session his/her point of view with regard to motions of other participants to court proceedings; 4) speak in pleadings. In criminal proceedings, a convicted shall be the accused in whose respect the judgment of conviction has taken legal effect. The acquitted, convicted shall enjoy the rights of an accused set forth in Article 42 hereof to the extent to which his/her defence at the appropriate stage of court proceedings may require. If a suspect or accused is a minor or a person recognised in accordance with the procedure established by law as legally incapable or partially legally capable, his legal representative shall be committed to participate in a procedural action. Defence counsel shall mean a lawyer who provides defence of the suspect, accused, convicted or acquitted. A lawyer whose information is not available in the Unified Register of Lawyers of Ukraine, shall not engage in defence counselling. In court proceedings, there shall be not more than five defence counsels appearing for the same defendant. Defence counsel shall apply remedies prescribed by this Code and other laws of Ukraine. Documents related to the defence counsel’s performing his/her duties may not be inspected, seized, or disclosed by the investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or court without defence counsel's consent. Government authorities, local governments and their officials shall comply with the legitimate demands of defence counsel. Suspect or accused, their legal representatives, and other persons upon request or consent of the suspect or accused may commit a defence counsel to participate in criminal proceedings at any time. Investigator, public prosecutor and the court shall refrain from recommending any specific defence counsel. Defence counsel can be engaged by investigator, prosecutor, investigating judge or court in other cases pursuant to law regulating free legal aid. Defence counsel’s authority to participate in criminal proceedings shall be confirmed by: 1) the certificate of the right to engage in legal practice; 2) an order, agreement with defence counsel or a power of attorney issued by a body (institution) authorised by the law to provide free legal aid. Any additional requirements except to the counsel to present his/her ID shall not be allowed. The suspect and accused shall also have the right to engage a defence counsel to participate in particular procedural action. The defence counsel shall have the same rights and duties as the defence counsel who has been conducting the defence throughout criminal proceedings. Waiver or replacement of defence counsel will take place exclusively in the presence of defence Counsel. Victim in criminal proceedings may be an individual who has sustained moral, physical or material damage as a result of a criminal offence. Victim shall be delivered a handout advising on his/her procedural rights and duties by the person who accepted the report that a criminal offences has been committed. A person, who sustained moral damage. as a representative of a legal entity or certain part of the society, may not be a victim. A victim shall have the right to: 1) be notified of his/her rights and obligations under this Law; 2) know the substance of suspicion and charges; 3) produce evidence to investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or court; 4) file recusations and motions; 5) in the presence of legitimate grounds, to ensuring of security in respect of himself/herself. Victim's duties include reporting offences and taking part in court proceedings. At all stages of criminal proceedings, the victim can reconcile with the suspect or accused. Conciliation is the ground for closing criminal proceedings in cases specified by law of Ukraine on criminal responsibility and this Code. Victim in criminal proceedings may be represented by a representative: a person who is entitled to be a defence counsel. Legal entity which is the victim may be. represented by its director, other person authorised by law or founding documents, an. employee of the legal entity by power of attorney. Other participants to the criminal proceedings Article 60. An applicant who is a whistleblower, in addition to the rights provided for by this Article, shall have the right to receive information on the status of the pre-trial investigation initiated upon his/her report or notification. The information shall be provided by the investigator or public prosecutor no later than five days from the date of submission of the report. A representative shall enjoy the procedural rights of a civil plaintiff and civil defendant whose interests he/she represents. A representative of a legal entity in whose respect proceedings are conducted shall be: a person who is entitled to act as a defence counsel in criminal proceedings; director or other person authorised by law or constituent documents. In the course of pre-trial investigation, a representative of the legal entity shall have the right to: 1) be timely informed on the time and place of court hearing; 8) file recusations: 9) obtain copies of procedural documents and written notices; 16) challenge decisions, acts, and omission of investigator, public prosecutor and investigating judge. Any individual or legal entity may be a third party whose property is being seized. The issue of seizure shall accrue from the moment a public prosecutor applies to the court with a motion for seizure of property. The authority of a representative of a thirdparty, whose property was being seized, to participate in criminal proceedings shall be confirmed. A representative of a third party, whose property is being seized, is a person who is entitled to act as a defence counsel in criminal proceedings. A third party and its representative shall: 1) appear upon summons of a public prosecutor or court and, if it proves to be impossible to appear in time, to inform thereon in advance. A witness shall have the right to: 1) know why and in which criminal proceeding he/she is interrogated; 2) take advantage of legal aid to be provided by the lawyer; 3) waive giving testimonies in respect of himself/herself, close relatives and family members, which may serve a ground for suspecting his/her close relatives or family members of, or charging them with, commission of a criminal offence. A witness shall: 1) appear when summoned before the investigator, prosecutor, investigating judge or court; 2) give truthful evidence during pre-trial investigation and judicial proceedings; 3) not disclose any details directly related to the essence of the criminal proceeding. An interpreter/translator shall have the right to ask questions with a view to provide an accurate interpretation/translation. An expert in criminal proceedings shall be an individual who has scientific, technical or any other special expertise. Before conducting procedural action, the party, which committed the interpreter/translator, or investigating judge or court shall verify the ID and competence of the interpreter. The expert shall have the right to: 1) read records of the criminal proceeding, which relate to the subject of expert examination; 2) request the provision of additional materials and samples and the conduct of other actions. An expert shall: 1) conduct full-fledged examination in person and prepare well-grounded and impartial written opinion in respect of questions asked. 2) appear before the court and answer questions during interrogation. 3) ensure preservation of the object subject to expert examination. 4. An expert shall not collect materials which are necessary for expert examination on his/her own initiative. The parties to the criminal proceeding may apply during trial for committing a specialist or for using his/her explanations and assistance. A specialist shall: 1) appear when summoned before the investigator, inquiring officer, public prosecutor or court with the required technical equipment, devices and appliances; 2) follow the instructions of the party to thecriminal proceeding that has committed him/her, or court, and give explanations. An officer of a probation agency shall: 1) compile a pre-trial report and submit it to the court within the period specified by the court ruling; 2) respect the rights and freedoms of man and citizen; 3) notify the court without delay of the existence or occurrence of external circumstances that make it impossible to prepare or timely submit a report. An investigating judge, judge or juror shall not participate in a criminal proceeding where he/she is an applicant, victim, civil plaintiff, civil defendant, close relative or family member of investigator, prosecutor, suspect, accused, victim or civil defendant. Court’s composition which conducts a judicial proceeding shall not include individuals who are related to each other. A judge who participated in the criminal proceeding in the court of first instance shall not participate in this proceeding in appellate and cassation courts. 2. A public prosecutor, investigator or inquiring officer shall not. participate in a criminal proceeding where he is an applicant, victim, civil plaintiff, civil defendant, close relative or family member of a party. A specialist, probation agency officer, interpreter/translator, expert or court clerk may not participate in criminal proceedings. Challenge pleas may be filed both during pre-trial investigation and judicial proceedings. A challenge plea shall be considered by another judge of the court who is assigned under procedure established by part 3 of Article 35 hereof. The issue of challenging shall be decided upon a reasoned ruling of the investigating judge, judge (court) in the deliberations room. While considering a challenge, the court shall hear a person who has been challenged if the latter wishes to provide explanations, as well as an opinion of individuals who participate in the criminal proceeding. The court shall advise a suspect, accused, victim, civil plaintiff and civil defendant of their right to commit another defence counsel or representative and give him for this during pre-trial proceedings at least twenty four hours and during court proceedings at at least seventy two hours. If the suspect or accused in criminal proceedings, where involvement of a defence counsel is mandatory, does not commit another Defence Counsel within these time limits, the investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or court shall appoint a defence Counsel on their own. The evidence shall be deemed inadmissible where obtained: 1) from the testimony of a witness who was further recognised as a suspect or accused in this criminal proceeding. 2) after the commencement of a criminal proceeding by exercising by pre-trial investigation agency or the prosecutor's office of their powers. 3) during the execution of the ruling on permission to search a dwelling or other property of a person. Evidence of a certain habit or standard business practices of a suspect or accused shall be admissible to prove that a certain criminal offence was consistent with that habit. Inadmissibility of evidence obtained in the cases of unfounded assets and their recovery in state revenue shall not be used to prove guilt of the suspect. The burden of proving circumstances referred to in Article 91 of this Code shall rest with an investigator, public prosecutor and, in cases specified by this Code, on the victim. Proving consists in collecting, examining and evaluating evidence in order to establish circumstances that are important for criminal proceedings. Investigatory (search) activities shall be initiated by the defence, victim or representative of the legal entity in whose respect proceedings are taken. The evidence may be obtained in the territory of a foreign state within the framework of international co-operation. No evidence shall have any predetermined probative value. Testimonies shall mean oral or written reports given in the course of interrogation. The parties to the criminal proceeding, victim and representative of the legal entity in whose respect proceedings are taken shall have the right to obtain from participants to a criminal proceeding and other persons, subject to their consent, explanations that are not proving evidence. Hearsay testimony shall be a statement made orally, in writing or in any other form with regard to a certain fact. The court may admit hearsay evidence where the suspect or accused has created or facilitated the creation of circumstances under which the person concerned may not be examined. Hearsay testimonies shall not be admissible unless they are supported by other evidence found admissible in accordance with rules other than those specified in provisions of part 2 of this Article. Documents containing factual data as to wrongful acts of individuals or groups of individuals shall be documents, and may be used as evidence in criminal proceedings. Records of procedural actions and annexes drawn up in accordance with the procedure established by this Code, and also data media on which procedural actions have been fixed by technical means. Documents obtained during criminal proceedings through the taking of measures stipulated by current international treaties, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada. Physical evidence transferred to or seized by a party to criminal proceedings shall be returned to its owner as soon as possible. Prosecution shall preserve physical evidence according to the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Physical evidence, unless it contains elements of a criminal offence such as items or large lots of goods, where its storing, in view of its bulkiness or for other reasons, is impossible without due effort, is kept in a different storage location. Physical evidence with value exceeding 200 subsistence minimum levels for employable persons, provided it is possible without prejudice to criminal proceedings, shall be transferred with the written consent of its owner. Physical evidence. transferred for processing or destruction by decision of the investigating judge or court if they belong to items or goods withdrawn from circulation or if their long term storage is hazardous for the life or health of people or environment. Criminal proceedings are terminated by an investigator or public prosecutor. Issue of asset forfeiture and disposal of the physical evidence and documents shall be resolved by a court ruling on consideration of the respective motion under Articles 171–174 hereof. 9. The court shall decide on asset forfeiture and how to manage physical evidence. The related persons of a convict shall mean legal entities that, with his/her assistance, received the said property for ownership or use. The court recognises the absence of legal grounds for acquiring rights to a part of the property. Where it is impossible to allocate such a part, its value shall be confiscated. An expert shall provide opinion on his/her own behalf and is personally liable for its reliability. Expert opinion may not be based on evidence which the court found to be inadmissible. Expert who provides opinion in respect of mental state of the suspect or accused shall not state whether the accused had the mental state, which constitutes an element of criminal offence. The course and outcome of a procedural action shall be entered in a record. The recording made with audio and video recording equipment during the search made by an investigator or public prosecutor shall be an integral part of the record. Not recorded actions and circumstances of the search shall not be entered into a search report and used as evidence in criminal proceedings. The record shall be signed by all participants to the conducted procedural action. Comments and amendments shall be placed in the record before signatures. Where a person who participated in the conduct of procedural action refuses to sign the record, this shall be mentioned therein. Such a person shall have the right to give written explanations on the reasons for refusal. The right to unimpeded video recording of the search shall be granted to the defence. Participants to a procedural action shall be advised in advance that technical means to record the procedural action are used. A court session journal shall be maintained and signed by a court clerk. Failure to use technical means for the purpose of recording criminal proceedings where their use is mandatory shall render the proceeding invalid.  Register of pre-trial proceedings records shall be compiled by investigator or public prosecutor and forwarded to the court together with the indictment. Investigator or prosecutor’s decisions shall be adopted as rulings. Ruling shall be delivered where provided for by this Code and also whenever an investigator, inquiring officer or publicProsecutor finds this necessary. In criminal proceedings, notification shall mean a procedural action through which an investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or court notifies a certain participant to criminal proceedings. Notice shall contain: last name and position of an investigator,. public prosecutor,. investigating judge, appellation of the court that makes the notification. Court cases in respect of disputes arising from the fact of occupation or offences related to the occupation shall fall under a separate category of cases. A case shall be recognised as being related to occupation by a reasoned decision of the judge. Where a foreign element is involved in a case, rogatory letters, summonses and other court documents shall be served no later than fifteen days prior to the commencement of the procedural action. Free days and holidays shall be included, and when a period is calculated in hours, non-working hours shall be including, too. A period missed for a valid reason shall be renewed upon a motion of an individual concerned upon a ruling of investigating judge or court. Procedural expenses include: 1) expenses for legal aid; 2) expenses related to the travel to the place where pre-trial investigation or court proceeding is conducted; 3) expensesrelated to the involvement of victims, witnesses and specialists. A court has the right to reduce the amount of procedural expenses to be paid by its ruling or exempt from its payment in full or in part. Expenses related to defence counsel’s fees shall be borne by a suspect a accused, except as provided otherwise under part 3 of this Article. Expenses related to the involvement of witnesses, specialists, interpreters/translators and experts shall be borne by the party to criminal proceedings. Victims, civil plaintiffs and witnesses shall be reimbursed for their travel, renting housing and per diem. Experts, specialists and interpreters shall be paid a remuneration for the job done, unless it was done as their official duty. Expenses related to the storage and forwarding of items and documents shall be borne by the State Budget of Ukraine under procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In the event of conviction, the court shall award in favour of the state the expenses on engaging an expert which are supported with documents. Civil action on behalf of minors or persons lawfully declared incapable or partially incapable may be entered by their legal representatives. A civil action in criminal proceedings shall be considered by the court according to the rules established by this Code. The matter and manner of a statement of claim shall conform to the requirements provided for actions entered in civil procedure. The court depending on the proof of grounds and amount of action shall sustain the civil action in full or in part or dismiss it. The state, having reimbursed the damage caused by the investigator or public prosecutor, shall apply the right of recourse to these persons in the event of establishing in their actions a criminal offence. A person shall have the right to receive remuneration who: 1) reported a corruption crime within the framework of an agreement in criminal proceedings or who is an accomplice to corruption crime of which he/she has reported. In the absence of at least one of these criteria, the court shall make a reasoned decision to refuse to pay. General rules for application of measures to ensure criminal proceedings. Summons by investigator, public prosecutor, court summons and compulsory attendance. Court summons by investigator or public prosecutor. Court subpoenas by investigator. High Anti-Corruption Court summons. Court subpoena by judge. High anti-corruption court summons by prosecutor. Court shall summon participants to criminal proceedings whose participation in court proceedings is mandatory. Ruling on court summons of an underage person shall be served, as a rule, on his/her parent, adoptive parent, or legal representative. Different procedure for serving a summons shall be admissible only where this is justified by circumstances of criminal proceedings. A person shall receive the summons or be notified of it by other means not later than three days before the day when he/she shall arrive on summons. Text of court summons shall state: last name and position of investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or judge; name and address of the court or other institution which issues summons. Non-appearance on summons can result in pecuniary penalty in the amount of 0.25 to 0.5 times minimum subsistence wages. For persistent non-compliance with summons, a victim shall be held liable as established by law. Failure to comply with summons of an investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or court (failure to appear on summons without valid reason for more than two times) by a suspect or accused who are announced in interstate or international wanted list. A decision to enforce compulsory attendance shall be taken: during pre-trial investigation, by an investigating judge upon motion of an investigator, public prosecutor or proprio motu. Compulsory attendance of an officer from the personnel of an intelligence agency of Ukraine in the performance of his duties shall be enforced only in presence of that agency’s official representatives. A motion on enforcement of compulsory attendance shall be considered immediately after it is initiated. Enforcement of the ruling for compulsory attendance may be entrusted to the respected units of the National Police, security agencies, bodies supervising compliance with tax legislation, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine or the State Bureau of Investigations. Pecuniary penalty may be imposed on participants to the criminal proceedings for failure to fulfil their procedural duties in the cases and amounts stipulated by this Code. Motion for imposition of pecuniary. penalty on a person in the course of the pre-trial investigation shall contain the following. information: name and registration number of the criminal proceeding concerned. The investigating judge or the court upon establishing that the given person failed to fulfil his/her procedural duty without valid reasons shall impose pecuniary penalty on this person. A copy of the corresponding ruling shall be forwarded to the person on whom pec uniary penalty was imposed no later than the next working day after taking the decision. Documents confirming the following special rights may be temporarily seized: right to operate a vehicle or a ship; right to hunt; 3) right to conduct entrepreneurial activity. Temporary restriction of exercising special right may be imposed by decision of investigating judge and during pre-trial investigation for a period not exceeding two months. Motion for temporary restriction of the special right may be considered only in the presence of the suspect and his/her defence counsel. Investigating judge may, upon motion of the parties to the criminal proceedings or proprio motu, hear any witness or examine any records of importance. Public prosecutor has the right to file a motion seeking extension of the term of temporary restriction of the special right. Suspension from office may be applied to a person who is suspected of or charged with committing a crime. The dismissal of Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine shall be conducted by an investigating judge on the basis of a reasoned motion. The public prosecutor or the investigator with the concurrence of the public prosecutor shall have the right to approach the investigating judge in the course of pre-trial investigation or the court with a motion for suspension of a person from his/her office. The motion shall state: 1) brief description of circumstances of the criminal offence in connection with which the motion is filed; 2) legal determination of thecriminal offence with the indication of the corresponding Article. The motion for the temporary suspension of the judge due to bringing him/her to criminal responsibility shall be submitted to the High Council of Justice. The motion for suspension of a person from his/her office shall be considered by the investigating judge or the court no later than three days after the date of submission of the motion to the court. Suspension from office may be revoked by the decision of the investigating judge in the course of the pre-trial investigation or by the court ruling. Public prosecutor, and as for Head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, his/her Deputy – the Prosecutor General or the Deputy Prosecutor General – Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Provisional access to items and documents consists in providing a party in criminal proceedings with the opportunity to examine such items. The parties to the criminal proceedings may apply to investigating judge during pre-trial investigation or to court during judicial proceedings. Items and documents to which access is prohibited include correspondence or any other form of communication between defence counsel and his/her client. Information in possession of a mass medium or a journalist and which was provided to them on condition that its authorship or source of information would not be disclosed. Information which may constitute secrecy of notary’s activity; 4) confidential information, including trade secrets; 5) personal correspondence of a person and other notes of personal nature; 6) information held by telecommunication operators and providers. The access of a person to items and documents containing secrets protected by law shall be granted according to the procedure laid down by law. The term of validity of the ruling which may not exceed two months from the date of the rulings, except for the rulings issued to comply with the requirements of part 2 of Article 562 hereof. The person named in an investigating judge’s ruling on provisional access to items and documents as the possessor of the objects and documents shall be required to give provisional access. to the person indicated in the ruling. A person producing a ruling on temporary access to. items and originals or copies of documents shall leave to the owner of items. and originals a list of items seized. Property in the form of things, documents, money, etc. may be provisionally seized if there are sufficient grounds to believe that it was intended (used) to induce a person to commit a criminal offence. Property may also be Provisionally seized during search or examination. Temporary seizure of electronic information systems or their parts, mobile terminals of communication systems shall be prohibited.  Provisionally seized property shall be returned to the person from whom it has been seized. A copy of the court decision on refusal or partial satisfaction of the motion for attachment of temporarily seized property should be handed over to the investigator or public prosecutor immediately after its announcement. Attachment of property shall mean temporary, until revoked in the manner prescribed by this Code. The investigator or public prosecutor shall take all necessary measures to identify and search for property that may be attached in criminal proceedings. Attachment of property shall be allowed in order to ensure: 1) preservation of physical evidence; 2) asset forfeiture; 3) forfeiture of property as a type of punishment or measure of a criminal law nature against a legal entity. It is prohibited to attach funds in a single account opened in the manner prescribed by Article 35-1 of the Tax Code of Ukraine. Attachment shall be imposed on the property of a suspect, accused, convict or a third party provided there are sufficient grounds to believe that it will be subject to asset forfeiture. Attachment may be imposed on property that has previously been seized in accordance with other legislative acts. The value of the property to be attached for the purpose of securing a civil action or recovery of the received improper advantage shall be commensurate with the amount of damage caused by the criminal offence or specified in the civil action. Public prosecutor an investigator in agreement with the prosecutor, and also a civil plaintiff in order to secure a civil action, shall have the right to apply to the investigating judge or court for the attachment of property. Property shall not be attached where it is owned by a bona fide purchaser, except for the seizure of property to ensure the preservation of physical evidence. Motion for attachment of property shall be considered by the investigating judge or court not later than two days after it has been lodged. A motion of investigator, public prosecutor or civil plaintiff for the attachment of. property which has not been provisionally seized may be considered without. notifying the suspect, accused, other holder of property, their defence counsel or legal. representative and the representative of the legal entity in whose respect proceedings are taken. The investigating judge or court shall refuse to grant a request for seizure of property if the person who has filed it does not prove the need for such seizure. It shall not be allowed to seize the property/ funds of a bank classified as insolvent, a bank in respect of which a decision has been made to revoke the banking license and liquidate the bank. The court shall use the least onerous method of attaching property. A copy of the ruling shall be handed to the investigator or public prosecutor, as well as to those present during the announcement. The court shall pass the ruling to attach provisionally seized property within seventy two hours after the motion has been received. Property attachment may also be revoked fully or in part by an investigating judge’s ruling in the course of pre-trial investigation or by court during judicial proceedings. Suspect, accused, their defence counsel, legal representative, other owner or holder of property and representative of the legal entity in whose respect proceedings are taken, who were absent during consideration of the issue of property attachment, can file a motion to revoke property attachment. The measures of restraint shall be as follows: 1) personal commitment; 2) personal warranty; 3) bail; 4) house arrest; 5) custody. Ruling on the attachment of property shall be immediately executed by investigator or public prosecutor. Restrictive measures in the form of personal commitment, personal bail, house arrest, bail shall not be applied to persons suspected of committing crimes under Articles 109–114-1, 258–258-5, 260, 261. Grounds for enforcement of a measure of restraint shall be the existence of reasonable suspicion of having committed a criminal offence. The investigator or public prosecutor shall not have the right to initiate application of a measures of restraint without grounds provided for by this Code. Circumstances taken into account include importance of available evidence concerning the commission of criminal offence by the suspect. The suspect or accused shall be notified, in written form against his/her signature, of duties imposed on him/her. In case of non-observance, he/she may be applied a more strict measure, and may be imposed a pecuniary penalty in the amount of 0.25 to 2 times minimum subsistence wages. House arrest may be applied to a person who is suspected or accused of committing a crime punishable by imprisonment. The decision to choose a measure of restraint in the form of house arrest shall be submitted for execution to the body of the National Police at the place of residence of the suspect or accused. Control over the fulfilment of personal warranty obligations shall be conducted by an investigator. Bail may be paid both by the suspect or accused himself/herself and by any other individual or legal entity (bail bondsman) No legal entity in the state or communal ownership, or one financed out of a local budget, state budget or that of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, or in the charter capital of which there is a stake, shall be a bail bondsman. Bail may be established in the amount exceeding eighty or three thousand times the minimum wage accordingly. A suspect or accused person who is not in custody shall by no later than five days of determination of bail be required to deposit the funds into the respective account. The bail shall be reverted into the state’s revenue, be credited to the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. The bail paid in by the suspect or accused may be, in full or in part, reverted by court to the execution of sentence in respect of punishment involving property. Bail which has not been forfeited to the state shall be returned to the suspect, accused or bail bondsman after such measure of restraint expires. 2) A person with prior record of convictions who is suspected of or charged with an offence punishable by imprisonment of up to three years. 3) a person without prior convictions who has been notified of suspicion in the commission of another offence. 4) a. person without a prior conviction who is suspected of or charged with an offence that according to law is punishable by. imprisonment of more than five years. 5) A. person wanted by the competent authorities of a foreign state for commission of a criminal offence in connection with which the issue of surrender (extradition) to such foreign state may be decided. A motion of an investigator or prosecutor to apply a measure of restraint shall be submitted to the local general court, within the territorial jurisdiction of which the pre-trial investigation agency is located. The motion shall be attached with copies of records used by the investigator or public prosecutor to support their arguments for the motion. The motion to enforce a measure of restraint to each individual shall require a separate motion. The judge or court must consider the motion without any delay and in any case within seventy two hours after the suspect or accused has actually been apprehended, or after the filing of the motion where the suspect, accused is at large. The court must ensure that the suspect has been handed over copies of themotion and records used to substantiate the necessity to enforce it. Public prosecutor or investigator can file a motion on permission for apprehension with a view to compulsory attendance. The motion may be filed concurrently with filing a motion for enforcement of a measure of restraint in the form of custody or on a change of such measure to custody. It can also be filed prior to the appearance of the suspect or accused in court on grounds of court summons. Ruling to grant permission for apprehension with a view to compulsory attendance shall contain: name of the court, last name and initials of investigating judge or judge (judges) Ruling granting permission to compelled appearance shall state first name, last names, address and telephone number of public prosecutor or investigator upon whose motion the ruling has been adopted. Article 191. Actions by authorised officials after the apprehension based on investigating judge's, court’s ruling to grant permission for apprehension. Article 192. Lodging motion to enforce a measure of restraint after apprehension of a person without ruling granting permission for apprehending the person. Public prosecutor or investigator can lodge a motion to enforce a measure of restraint to the individual who was apprehended without ruling granting permission for apprehension. Ruling shall be submitted to the High Anti-Corruption Court. Motion for application of restraint must comply with the requirements of Article 184 hereof. An investigating judge or a court may consider a motion for selection of such measure of restraint as putting into custody in absence of a suspect or accused. This is in the case where a public prosecutor apart from the circumstances stipulated by Article 177 of this Code will prove that the suspect has been announced into international search. The investigating judge or court may enforce a less strict measure of restraint than the one indicated in the motion. The court may also impose upon the suspect or accused any of the duties as provided for by part 5 and 6 of this Article. In the interests of the victim of a crime related to domestic violence, the court may apply to a person suspected of committing such a criminal offence. Duties provided for by parts 5 and 6 of this Article, may be imposed on a suspect or accused for a period not exceeding two months. If necessary, this period may be extended at the request of a public prosecutor in the manner prescribed by Article 199 hereof. Application of electronic control means consists in fastening on the body of the suspect or. accused of a device that allows monitoring and recording his/her whereabouts. Applying electronic control means which significantly disrupt the normal tenor of the concerned person’s life, cause significant discomfort when worn, or may threaten life and health of the person, shall be inadmissible. Investigator or officer of the National Police, shall explain to the suspect or accused the rules of using the device. Term of validity of the ruling to commit to custody, extend custody shall not exceed sixty days. Time of keeping under custody may be extended by investigating judge within the time limits of pre-trial investigation. Motion to extend custody period, in addition to information referred to in Article 184 of this Code, shall contain description of circumstances which show that the stated risk has not decreased or that new risks have emerged. Investigating judge shall consider the motion to extend custody period before the expiry of the previous ruling to commit to custody, according to the rules established for consideration of a motion to enforce a measure of restraint. Investigating judge shall deny the extension of custody period unless public prosecutor or investigator proves that circumstances specified in part 3 of this Article justify continued keeping under custody. A suspect or accused, to whom a measure of restraint has been applied, is entitled to file a motion to change the measure. A copy of the motion and records on which in substantiation shall be provided to the public prosecutor. The investigating judge or court shall consider the motion of a suspect or. accused within three days from the date of its receipt. The suspect or accused shall be released after paying in bail set by investigating judge or court in the ruling on enforcement of the measure of restraint in the form of keeping in custody. The competent official in whose custody he/she is kept has any other court’s decision which has taken legal effect. Verification of the document confirming payment of bail shall not take more than one working day. Each investigating judge of the court whose territorial jurisdiction extends to a person committed to custody shall have the right to issue a ruling by which to order any government authority or official to ensure respect for such person’s right. Investigating judge shall release the person deprived of liberty from custody unless the government authority. or official that keeps such person in custody presents a valid court. decision, or proves the existence of any other legal grounds for deprivation of liberty. Nobody may be apprehended without investigating judge’s or court's ruling except as prescribed by this Code. A special procedure for apprehension involving specially designated categories of persons shall be established. Everyone has the right to apprehend any person without court’S ruling except persons specified in Articles 482 and 482-2 of this Code, when someone commits or makes attempt to commit a criminal offence. A special procedure for apprehension involving specially designated categories of persons shall be established by Chapter 37 of this Code. An authorised official, investigator or public prosecutor may search a detained person in compliance with the rules provided for by part 7 of Article 223 and Article 236. A competent official who apprehended the person shall be required to immediately inform the apprehended person, in a language known to him/her, of the grounds for the apprehension. On apprehension of a person suspected of the commission of crime, a report shall be drawn up in which, in addition to information specified in Article 104 of this Code, the following shall be indicated: place, date and exact time (hours and minutes) of apprehension. The report on apprehension shall be signed by the person who draw it up, and the apprehended person. One or more officials responsible for keeping those apprehended shall be designated in the pre-trial investigation agency’s station. An individual apprehended without investigating judge's or court's ruling shall be released or brought to court for consideration of a motion to impose a measure of restraint no later than sixty hours after apprehension. An officer who carried out the apprehension shall notify the body (institution) authorised by the law to provide free legal aid immediately. In the event of detention of a state or private executor, the competent official who conducted the detention shall notified the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine within 24 hours. Procedure of its creation and maintaining shall be subject to approval of the Prosecutor General’s Office of Ukraine. Pre-trial investigation shall start from the moment the information concerned has been entered in the Unified Register of Pre-Trial Investigations. Inspection of the crime scene may be conducted before entering the information. Refusal to accept and register a statement or information on a criminal offence shall be inadmissible. 5) provisional legal qualification of the criminal offence with indication of Article (part of the Article) of the Ukrainian law on criminal liability. 6) last name, first name, patronymic and position of the official who entered the information in the Register as well as of the investigator or public prosecutor who initiated pre-trial investigation. 7) other circumstances specified by regulation on the Unified Register of Pre-Trial Investigations. Investigators of the National Police shall conduct pre-trial investigation of criminal offences provided for by the Law of Ukraine on criminal liability, except for those referred to the jurisdiction of other pre- Trial investigation agencies. The investigator or inquiring officer shall notify the National Agency for Prevention of Corruption in writing of the initiation of the pre- trial investigation. Criminal offence committed by the President of Ukraine, whose powers have been terminated, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and other officials. Detectives of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine shall conduct a pre-trial investigation of criminal offences under Articles 191, 206-2, 209, 210, 211, 354. The President of Ukraine, whose powers have been terminated, is a Member of Parliament of Ukraine. He is a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the First Deputy and Deputy Ministers. A civil servant of A category; deputy of the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, councillor of a oblast council. A serviceman of the senior officer staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Security Service of Ukraine and other military groups formed in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. A director of a large business enterprise, in the authorised capital of which the share of state or communal property exceeds 50 per cent. An official of a government authority, law enforcement agency, military group, local government. In criminal proceedings concerning the criminal offences provided for by Articles 384, 385, 386, 387, 388, 396 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the pre-trial investigation shall be conducted by the investigator of the body under the jurisdiction of the criminal offence in connection with which it has been initiated. In determining the body that will conduct a pre- Trial investigation in the form of an inquiry, the rules of jurisdiction shall apply. Pre-trial investigation is conducted by an investigator of the pre-trial. investigation agency in whose territorial jurisdiction criminal offence has been committed. The day of the beginning of the. pre- Trial investigation in the proceedings allocated to a separate proceeding shall be the. day when the investigation was initiated. Where during the pre-trial investigation it is established that a person has committed a criminal offence, the investigator, in agreement with the public prosecutor, shall send the records of the criminal proceedings to the chief officer of the inquiry agency. Disputes concerning the jurisdiction shall be settled by chief prosecutor of a higher-level prosecutor’s office. The term of the pre-trial investigation may be extended in accordance with the procedure provided for by paragraph 4, Chapter 24 of this Code. The term from the date of the decision to suspend the criminal proceedings until the day of its cancellation by the investigating judge shall be included in the terms provided by this Article. Investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor shall consider a motion of defence, victim and his/her representative, legal representative or representative of the legal entity in whose respect proceedings are taken. No denial shall be allowed in making a generally accessible document the original of which is contained in pre-trial investigation files available. An investigator or prosecutor shall take appropriate measures to ensure attendance of the persons whose lawful interests may be restricted or infringed. Conducting investigative (detective) actions in night-time (between 10 pm till 6 am) shall not be permitted, except for urgent situations. If information, which may indicate that the individual concerned is not guilty of the commission of criminal offence, becomes available during the conduct of an investigative (Detective) action, the investigator or public prosecutor shall conduct the action. Victim, relatives of the suspect, accused and victim, officers of law enforcement agencies, as well as persons concerned with the outcome of the criminal proceedings shall not be witnesses of investigative action. The above individuals may be examined during court proceedings as witnesses of the conduct of the investigative (detective) action concerned. A person shall have the right not to answer questions with regard to circumstances in whose respect there is a direct prohibition in law. Investigator or public prosecutor may simultaneously interview two or more persons who have already been interviewed, to clarify the reasons for discrepancies in their testimonies. Witnesses shall be advised on criminal liability for refusal to give testimony and for giving knowingly false testimony. An on-site court hearing may be held for the interrogation of a seriously ill witness who has been a victim during a pre-trial investigation. A child or an underage shall be interrogated in the presence of the legal representative, a pedagogue, or psychologist and a medical practitioner, where necessary. Interrogation of a child or an underage shall not last more than one hour without breaks, in the whole more than two hours per day. Persons who have not attained sixteen years of age are advised of the duty to give true testimony without warning them about criminal liability for the refusal to give testimony. Identification of an individual may be conducted under conditions when the individual to be identified does not see nor hear identifying person, i.e. out of visual and audio reach. The individual who has been presented for identification shall informed on the results of identification. Identification by photos, video recording materials shall preclude presentation of theindividual to identification at a later time. Presentation of objects for identification to be recorded. Dead body to be presented for identification in accordance with rules specified by parts 1 and 8 of Article 228 of this Code. Record of identification to state detailed characteristic signs by which the identifying person has identified an individual, object or dead body concerned. Interrogation of persons, identification of persons or objects during pre-trial investigation may be conducted in the mode of video conference involving transmission from other premises. If investigative (detective) action was recorded with technical means, the photos, video recording of individuals, objects or dead body which have been produced for identification shall be attached to the report. The course and results of investigative (detective) action as conducted in the video conference mode shall be fixed with the use of video (audio) technical devices. If a person who is to be taking part in the pre-trial investigation remotely is held in custody in a remand prison or penal institution, actions provided for by part 5 of this Article shall be conducted by an official of such institution. In order to ensure promptness of criminal proceedings, the investigator or public prosecutor may conduct the interrogation in the video conference or telephone conference mode of a person who for reasons of staying in a location remote from the place where the pre-trial investigation is conducted. Where necessary, the interrogation shall be fixed by audio or video recording technical means. The investigator or public prosecutor shall have the right, before the investigating judge’s ruling, to enter home or any other possession of a person only in urgent circumstances related to saving human life and property. The public prosecutor or investigator, with approval of the public prosecutor, shall be required to file promptly after such actions a motion for a search warrant. A request for search shall be considered in court on the day of its receipt, with participation of investigator or public prosecutor. The motion shall also be accompanied by originals or copies of documents and other materials by which the prosecutor or investigator substantiates the arguments of the motion. This requirement shall not apply to searches to find tools of criminal offence, objects and documents withdrawn from circulation. Investigator or public prosecutor may execute the ruling to authorise a search of home or any other property of a person. The victim, a suspect, defence counsel, representative, and other participants to the criminal proceedings may be invited to attend. Two copies of the ruling shall be prepared and expressly marked as copies. Search based on court’s ruling shall be conducted within the scope necessary to attain the objective of the search. Individuals present in the home or other possession may be searched if there are sufficient grounds to believe that they hide on their person objects or documents which are important for criminal proceedings. The investigator or public prosecutor shall not prohibit the participants to the search to use the legal aid of a lawyer. Search of person's home or other property based on a ruling of an investigating judge shall be recorded by means of audio and video recordings. Investigator or public prosecutor shall carry out visual inspection of the area, premises, items and documents to find and record the information relating to the commission of a criminal offence. Objects seized by law from trafficking shall be subject to seizure. Seized objects and documents which are not objects seized from circulation by law shall be deemed provisionally seized property. During inspection, investigator or public prosecutor or upon their assignment, the invited specialist may conduct measurements, photographing, audio or video recording, draw up plans and schemes. A record of investigative (detective) action conducted is drawn up which shall state everything which was found out. Measurements, photos, audio- or video recording, plans and schemes, graphic images, imprints, and moulds shall be attached to the record. The suspect, victim, witness, defence counsel, representative may be involved in investigative experiment. Examination which is accompanied by denudation of the individual examined shall be conducted by an individual of the same sex, with exception for a doctor. Investigator or public prosecutor shall have no right to be present when anindividual of other sex is being examined. It is not allowed to conduct expertise examination for addressing issues related to law. An expert may be engaged by the investigating judge at the request of the defence in cases and in the manner prescribed by Article 244 hereof. The defence party shall have the right to engage experts on a contractual basis to conduct an examination, including mandatory one. Compulsory conduct of medical or psychiatric expertise examination shall be undertaken upon investigating judge’s or court's ruling. The motion shall be considered no later than five days from the date of its receipt. The investigating judge may, on request of any party to the hearing or on his own initiative, hear any witness or examine any records relevant for deciding on the motion. The opinion of the expert involved by an investigating judge shall be made available to the person on whose motion the expert was involved. Biological samples shall be taken from a person in accordance with rules prescribed by Article 241 hereof. Only public prosecutor shall be vested with the right to take decision to conduct such a covert investigative (detective) action as control over the commission of crime. Investigation judge or court upon motion of a party to criminal proceedings can give permission to take biological samples in a compulsory manner. An investigator conducting a pre-trial investigation of a criminal offence or, on his behalf, authorised criminal intelligence units of the National Police, security agencies, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the State Bureau of Investigations, and authorities supervising compliance with tax and customs legislation shall have the right to conduct covert investigative (search) actions. In this case, the investigator or public prosecutor shall apply for permission to conduct covert investigative (detective) actions to the investigating judge of the respective appellate court closest to the appellate court. The request shall be considered with participation of the person who has filed the request. The motion shall state: name and registration number of the criminal proceeding concerned. Investigating judge’s ruling to allow conducting a covert investigative (detective) action shall meet general requirements for judicial decisions as prescribed by this Code. Ruling must contain information on: 1) public prosecutor or investigator who has applied for permission; 2) criminal offence which is subject of pre-trial investigation within which ruling is passed. In the exceptional and urgent cases related to saving human life and preventing the commission of grave or special grave crime, a covert investigative (detective) action may be initiated before an investigating judge adopts a ruling. Information obtained as a result of conducting such a action shall be subject to destruction as prescribed by Article 255 hereof. Recording of the progress and findings of covert investigative (detective) actions shall comply with the general rules for recording criminal proceedings provided for by this Code. Notifying individuals in whose respect covert investigative. (det detective) actions have been conducted. Information on the fact and methods of the conducting of covert. investigative (Detective) action, executors thereof, as well as information obtained as a. result of the conduct thereof, may not be disclosed. Information, objects and documents obtained as a result of the conduct of covert investigative (detective) actions which, in public prosecutor’s opinion, are not necessary for subsequent pre-trial investigation, shall be destroyed immediately. The use of records referred to in part 1 of this Article for purposes not related to the criminal proceedings, or reviewing such records by the participants to criminal proceedings shall be prohibited. People in respect of whose actions or contacts such investigative action was conducted, may be interrogated. Information obtained as a result of covert investigative (detective) actions shall be transmitted only through the public prosecutor. Interference in private communication of a defence counsel, between clergyman and the suspect, accused, convict or acquitted shall be prohibited. An individual’s correspondence may be arrested without being aware thereof in exceptional cases. Arrest of correspondence shall entitle the investigator to inspect and seize arrested correspondence. Seized correspondence shall be inspected in the postal office, which was assigned control and seizure of this correspondence. In the presence of the said individuals, the investigator shall decide on the opening of correspondence and inspect seized correspondence. Objects (inclusive of substances) or documents are important for a certain pre-trial investigation. The investigator within the scope prescribed in the investigating judge’s ruling shall conduct seizure of the correspondence concerned or limit himself to making copies or taking samples of corresponding messages. Copies shall be made or samples taken in view of protecting confidentiality of correspondence arrest. Collecting information from transport telecommunication networks shall be effected by authorised units of National Police, National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, and State Bureau of Investigation and Security. General managers and employees oftelecommunication networks’ operators shall facilitate conducting the actions on collecting information. Information obtained through the use of technological devices shall be examined, where necessary, with participation of a specialist. Technological devices which have been used during the conduct of the said covert investigative (detective) actions, as well as original media for received information shall be preserved till the judgment takes legal effect. Establishing the location of a radio electronic device shall constitute a covert investigative (detective) action that involves the use of technological devices to locate a radio-emission devices activated in the networks of mobile communication operators. Such action makes it possible to establish the circumstances that are important for criminal proceedings. Bank shall provide the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in the current mode with information on transactions conducted on one or more bank accounts. Head of the banking institution shall notify in writing all its employees involved in the monitoring of bank accounts of the obligation not to disclose information about this investigative action and the respective criminal liability. It is forbidden to provoke (incite) an individual to the commission of a crime in order to expose it. It is also forbidden to exert influence on his/her behaviour through violence, threats or blackmailing. Objects and documents obtained in such a way shall not be used in the criminal proceeding. The said individuals shall conduct a special assignment as covert investigative (detective) action based upon the investigator’s ruling approved by the chief officer of the pre-trial investigation agency. For this purpose, it shall be permitted to prepare and use specially produced objects and documents. Using marked beforehand or bogus (simulation) means for other purposes shall be prohibited. Covertly obtaining samples which are necessary for comparative analysis. Bogus (simulation) means employed in the course of a covert investigative (detective) action. It is forbidden to involve in confidential co-operation defence attorneys, notaries, medical staff, clergymen, journalists. The notice of suspicion must be drawn up by the public prosecutor or investigator. It must contain personal details of the person who is notified of suspicion. The notice must be served to the apprehended person within twenty four hours after he/she has been apprehended. If the notice is not served within this time period, the suspect shall be subject to immediate release. The pre-trial investigation may be suspended after a person has been notified about suspicion in the following cases: if the suspect falls seriously ill, which precludes him/her from participating in criminal proceedings, provided his/her illness is confirmed by the corresponding medical report. If there is a necessity to conduct procedural actions within the framework of international co-operation. The search for the suspect may be entrusted to the criminal intelligence units. A person shall have the right to have charges brought against him/her be reviewed by a court as early as possible. The suspended pre-trial investigation shall be renewed by a decision of the investigator or public prosecutor. Criminal proceedings shall be closed where: 1) absence of occurrence of the criminal offence has been established; 2) no sufficient evidence has been obtained to prove the person’s guilt in court, and options to obtain such evidence have been exhausted; 3-1) a person who has committed the criminal. offence has not been established in case of expiration of the statute of limitations for criminal prosecution, except in cases of. committing a special grave crime against the life or health of a person. The participants to criminal proceedings shall have the right to request the investigator, inquiring judge or public prosecutor to close the criminal proceedings where there are grounds provided for in this clause. 10) after notifying the person of suspicion, the term of pre-trial investigation specified in Article 219 hereof has expired. The decision to close proceedings against a legal entity may be appealed. Closure of criminal proceedings on the grounds provided for by clause 3-1, part 1 of this Article shall be conducted by the court upon the motion of the public prosecutor. Decision made by public prosecutor to close criminal proceedings against the suspect shall not preclude the continuation of pre-trial investigation in respect of the criminal offence concerned. Public prosecutor may overturn decision on grounds of illegitimacy or groundlessness. A person shall be relieved from criminal liability where provided for by the Law of Ukraine on criminal liability. A person suspected of or charged with perpetration of criminal offence shall be given the explanation of his/her right to such relief. The public prosecutor shall make a motion for the relief and submit it to the court without conducting the full-scale pre-trial investigation. The court by its ruling shall close criminal proceedings and relieve the suspect or accused from criminal liability in the event of establishing the reasons/grounds stipulated by the Law of Ukraine on criminal liability. If within a year from the date when a collective took the given person on probation he/she fails to justify this collective’s confidence, evades actions/measures of reformatory nature, and/or disturbs public order, the general meeting of the respective collective may pass a decision to refuse from going bail for this person. The court shall consider the issue of making this person criminally liable for the perpetrated criminal offence in accordance with the procedure prescribed by Article 288 of this Code. The court, by its ruling, shall revoke the ruling to close criminal proceedings and relieve the person from criminal liability, and shall submit the records of the proceedings for conducting the pre-trial investigation. The defence shall grant access and possibility to copy or appropriately reproduce any exhibits or parts thereof, documents or copies thereof. A decision as to granting or not granting the public prosecutor access to such records may be postponed until the defence has finished their examination of the materials of pre-trial investigation. The parties to the criminal proceedings shall confirm in writing to the other party, and victim, the fact of having been granted access to the records. The parties to the criminal proceedings, the victim and the representative of legal entity in whose respect proceedings are taken shall be afforded time sufficient for examining the records. In case of delay in viewing the records to which access has been granted, the investigating judge upon a motion of a party to criminal proceedings shall be required to set a time limit. Indictment shall be signed by investigator and public prosecutor who has approved it, or only by the public prosecutor if he has drawn it up alone. Provision of other documents to the court before commencement of the judicial proceedings shall be forbidden. Motion to impose compulsory medical or reformatory measures shall comply with the requirements of Article 291 of this Code. A motion to apply compulsory medical measures shall comply with the requirements of Article 291 of this Code. It must contain information on the proposed compulsory medical measure and a standpoint in respect of the possibility to ensure the person’s participation in court proceedings based on his/her state of health. Providing a copy of the indictment, of the motion to impose compulsory medical or reformatory measures and register of pre-trial proceedings records. Time limits of pre-trial investigation of a crime, if it cannot be completed due to complicated nature of proceedings, may be extended to three months, or to six months in view of special complexity of proceedings. Extending of time limits for pre- trial investigation of criminal offence where specified in clause 1, part 3 of Article 294 hereof, shall be conducted upon the request of the investigator. The suspect, his/her defence counsel shall have the right before the request to extend time limits for pre-trial investigation is submitted. Their written objections shall be attached to the request and submitted with it to the public prosecutor authorised to dispose the issue. The request for extension of the term of pre- trial investigation prior to notification of the person of suspicion shall state the title (number) of the criminal proceedings. The request for extension of the term of pre-trial investigation after the notification of the person of suspicion shall state: 1) last name, first name, patronymic of a suspect; 2) title (number) of the criminal proceedings; 3) essence of the suspicion, which has been notified; 4) reference to evidence which supports the suspicion; 5) procedural actions which require more time; 6) importance of the results of such procedural actions. Special pre-trial investigation (in absentia) shall be conducted in respect of one or more suspects in accordance with the general rules of pre- Trial investigation provided for by this Code. The investigating judge shall issue a reasoned decision on the refusal to satisfy the request to extend the term of the pre- trial investigation. Special pre-trial investigation shall be conducted following the investigative judge's resolution in criminal proceedings relating to crimes specified in Articles 109, 110, 110-2, 111, 112, 113, 114, 114-1, 115, 116, 118. Special pre- trial investigation of other crimes shall not be allowed, except in cases where crimes are committed by persons who are hiding from the investigation. A motion to conduct special pre-trial investigation shall be considered by the investigative judge within ten days from the moment of its submission to the court. The investigative judge shall be entitled, on the basis of a motion from any party to criminal proceedings or on own initiative, take testimony from any witness or examine any records. Where there are several suspects in the criminal proceedings, the investigative judge shall issue a ruling only with regard to those suspects in respect of whom there are circumstances specified by part 2 of Article 297-1 hereof. Repeated submission of the motion to the investigativeJudge to conduct special pre-trial investigation in one criminal proceedings shall not be allowed except in cases when there are new circumstances proving that the suspect hides. Procedural sources of evidence in criminal proceedings on criminal offences shall also be explanations of persons, results of medical examination, expert opinion, recordings by technical devices and technical means that have photo and filming functions. Detention of a person who has committed a criminal offence shall be carried out for no more than three hours from the moment of actual apprehension. A person may be detained for up to seventy-two hours. A copy of the detention report shall be sent to the public prosecutor immediately. Items and documents that are a tool and/or means of committing a criminal offence or a direct subject of encroachment shall be seized by an authorised official of the National Police. A written notice of suspicion of committing a criminal offence shall be drawn up by the investigator in agreement with the public prosecutor in the cases prescribed by this Code. The person shall be informed of the findings of the medical examination and the opinion of the specialist, if any. If there are sufficient grounds to believe that the person has committed an offence, for which in accordance with this Code he/she may be punishable by deprivation of the right to drive, the driver's license may be temporarily seized. The suspect shall be explained his/her duty to appear on the first summons before the inquiring officer, public prosecutor or court. Measures of restraint such as personal commitment and personal warranty shall be used as a provisional measure of restraint. For pre-trial investigation of criminal offences it is allowed to perform all investigative (detective) actions provided for by this Code. The term of detention of a person shall not exceed seventy-two hours from the moment of apprehension until the beginning of consideration of criminal proceedings in court. The public prosecutor decides to apply to the court with an indictment, a request for the application of compulsory measures of medical or reformatory nature. The prosecutor shall within the time limits specified in part 2 of this Article provide the person who has committed the offence with copies of inquiry report. Public prosecutor has right to refer to court an indictment containing inter alia a motion on consideration thereof in simplified procedure, without conducting judicial proceedings in court session. Investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor shall ensure the voluntary consent of the suspect, victim and the representative of the legal entity in respect of which the proceedings are being conducted, to consider the indictment. Decisions, acts or omissions of the investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor, which may be challenged during pre-trial proceedings and the right to challenge. Omission of investigator in failure to enter information on the criminal offence in the Unified Register of Pre-Trial Investigations. Complaints against decisions, acts or omissions of the investigator or public prosecutor referred to in part 1 of Article 303 of this Code, may be lodged by a person within ten days after the decision was taken, act or omission committed. Time limit for lodging of complaint shall be counted from the day the complainant has received its copy. Decisions, acts and omissions by the investigator, inquiring officer and public prosecutor may be also challenged during preparatory court session. Investigating judge or court shall refuse to open proceedings only if the complaint is lodged against such decisions, acts or omissions of the investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor. A copy of the ruling to refuse opening the proceedings shall be immediately forwarded to the complainant. The ruling to return the complaint or refuse opening proceedings may be challenged under appellate procedure. Complaints against decisions, acts or omissions of the investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor shall be considered by an investigating judge of a local court. In criminal proceedings concerning criminal offences within the jurisdiction of the High Anti-Corruption Court, complaints against decisions and acts will be considered in accordance with the rules of the court proceedings. The suspect, accused, victim, or other persons whose rights or legitimate interests are restricted during the pre-trial investigation, shall have the right to appeal to the superior public prosecutor of non-compliance with reasonable time by the investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor. Officials who are at fault for failure to respect reasonable time may be held liable under law. Complaints against other investigating judge’s rulings shall be non-appealable, and may be subject to judicial hearing in the course of preparatory proceedings in court. Decisions, acts or omissions of the public prosecutor which may be challenged by investigator or inquiring officer. Complaint of the investigator or inquiring officer shall be submitted to a superior public prosecutor against the prosecutor whose decision, act or omission is being appealed. Challenging of public prosecutor's decisions, acts or omissions shall not preclude execution thereof. Decision made by the superior publicProsecutor shall be final and may not be challenged before court. A preparatory court session shall be conducted with participation of the public prosecutor, the accused, defence counsel, victim and his/her representative. The presiding judge shall ask the opinions of the participants to court proceedings regarding the possibility of assigning court proceedings. The ruling to return the indictment, motion to enforce compulsory medical or reformatory measures may be challenged under appellate procedure. A pre-trial report shall be drawn up in respect of a person accused of committing a minor or grave crime, the lower limit of which shall not exceed five years of imprisonment. A report on an accused minor of 14 to 18 years of age shall be. drawn up regardless of the gravity of the crime committed, except as. provided for by this Code. The court shall explain to the accused in the commission of a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding ten years the right to file a motion for consideration of criminal proceedings against him/her by a panel of three judges. The court shall pass the ruling to assign judicial proceedings. Court proceedings shall be scheduled no later than ten days after the ruling on its assignment. Court session in criminal proceedings shall be conducted in one court’s composition. Whenever a judge cannot participate in the court session, he shall be replaced by another judge to be determined following the procedure established by part 3 of Article 35 hereof. After replacement of a judge, court proceedings shall start again. The court hearing in criminal proceedings as to the crimes specified in part 2 of Article -1 of this Code may be held in absentia, without the accused, except for a minor who hides from the investigation and judicial bodies. The court may also pass the ruling on compulsory attendance of the accused and/or the. ruling on imposition of pecuniary penalty. It shall be mandatory to engage a defence counsel to participate in special judicial proceedings. The summons shall be sent to the last-known address of residence of staying of the accused. Information about the documents and the summons will be published in national mass media. The accused shall be deemed to have been properly informed about the summons contents. The court shall be entitled to impose a pecuniary penalty on the victim in cases and in accordance with the procedure provided for by Chapter 12 of this Code. The court shall give the public prosecutor and defence counsel who previously did not participate in the proceedings concerned the time sufficient for viewing the records of the criminal proceedings. The court has the right to impose a pecuniary penalty on the representative of a legal entity in whose respect proceedings are taken. The number of those present in the courtroom may be restricted by the presiding judge only in case of the lack of seats. Close relatives and family members of the accused and victim shall enjoy the preferential right to be present at the court session.  individuals present in the courtroom shall stand up when the court enters and leaves the courtroom. Witnesses, experts and specialists shall testify standing in the place reserved for witnesses. Parties and participants to the criminal proceedings shall address the court “Your Honour” or “Respected court” The court has the right by its ruling to change, revoke or impose a measure of restraint in respect of the accused. The issue of prosecuting a person for the contempt of court shall be disposed by court immediately after commission of the breach. A copy of the ruling shall be handed over to the accused and the public prosecutor. An appeal against a court decision on the choice of a measure of restraint in the form of detention shall not suspend the proceedings in the court of first instance. Measures to ensure criminal proceedings shall be applied during the court proceedings in accordance with the provisions of Section II of this Code, subject to specific features established by this Section. The court on a motion of a party to criminal proceedings may direct the pre-trial investigation agency to conduct specific investigative (detective) actions. While considering a motion to grant interim access to objects and documents, the court shall also consider the reasons for which such access was not exercises during the pre trial investigation. The public prosecutor shall provide access to the materials obtained as a result of the investigative (Detective) action conducted on the court’s assignment. Court proceedings may be conducted through video conference with transmission from another premise, including such as is located beyond the bounds of the court premises. Court shall rule to conduct remote court proceedings proprio motu or on a motion of a party or other participants to the criminal proceedings. The search of the accused, who evades the court, shall be declared by ruling. The use in remote court proceedings of technical means and technologies shall be required to ensure adequate quality of image and sound. Remote court proceedings in accordance with the rules of this Article may be conducted in the courts of first, appellate and cassation instances during the court proceedings on any issues, the consideration of which is within the jurisdiction of the court. The public prosecutor may change charges brought, bring additional charges, refuse to back public prosecution, and initiate proceedings in respect of a legal entity. The court may go beyond the scope of charges brought in the indictment, only as regards changing legal qualification of the criminal offence concerned. If the indictment with changed charges raises the issue of applying such Law of Ukraine on criminal liability, the presiding judge shall be required to advise the victim of his/her right to press charges in court. The public prosecutor has the right to lodge a motivated motion with court to consider an additional charge in the same proceedings with the original charge. The court is required to adjourn the trial for the time needed for the preparation of defence against a new charge. New examination of evidence already examined by court prior to bringing additional charge shall be conducted only if court finds this necessary. The victim who has agreed to press charges in court shall have all rights inherent in the prosecution during court proceedings. Repeated non-appearance in court session of the victim summoned in compliance with the procedure laid down in this Code shall be deemed his refusal to support accusation. Criminal proceedings on the respective accusation shall acquire the status of private accusation. The court shall decide on a disqualification in accordance with Articles 75–81 hereof. The court administrator shall hand over to the participants who take part in trial the instruction on their rights and duties prescribed by this Code. The trial shall begin with the announcement by the prosecutor of a summary of the indictment. The prosecution and the defence shall have the right to refuse to deliver an introductory speech. The court shall examine the evidence produced by the prosecution first and then the evidence presented by the defence counsel. The scope of evidence to be examined and the way in which it shall be examined shall be set in the court’s ruling. Examining of the accused shall begin with the presiding judge’s proposal to testify about criminal proceedings. The accused may be asked questions by the victim, other defendants, civil plaintiff, civil defendant and the representative of the legal entity in whose respect proceedings are taken. The judge presiding in the court session shall administer him/her the following oath. Witnesses who have not yet testified may not be present in the courtroom during court proceedings. The witness for the prosecution shall be examined first by the public prosecutor. Witness for the defence will be examined by the defence counsel or, if the accused defends himself/herself, by the accused. During cross examination, leading questions are allowed. The witness may be examined repeatedly in the same or next court session upon his own initiative, upon a motion of a party to criminal proceedings or upon court’s initiative. The court shall have the right to order simultaneous examination of two or more already examined participants to the criminal proceedings to clarify reasons of differences in their testimonies. A child or underage victim shall be examined in accordance with rules set forth in this Article Article 355. An individual or an object may be presented to a witness, victim, and the accused for identification during court proceedings. Article 356. Upon a motion of a party to criminal proceedings, victim or proprio motu, the court may summon an expert. Expert may be asked questions regarding his/her possession of special knowledge and qualification in the field of examination. Exhibits shall be inspected by the court and produced for inspection to the participants to court proceedings and, where necessary, to other participants to the criminal proceedings. The court shall be entitled to order simultaneous examination of two or more experts to clarify reasons for differences in their findings. The court shall have the right to avail itself of oral advices or written explanations given by a specialist based on his special knowledge. The court shall consider statements about forgery of audio and video recordings according to the procedure prescribed for considering such statements. Field inspection is an exception to the rules of inspection during pre-trial investigation, as provided for by this Code. The conduct of on-site inspection and its results shall be fixed in the field inspection record and may be recorded with technical means. The court shall issue a ruling to change the procedure of court proceedings and continue trial in accordance with the rules set forth in Chapter 39 of this Code. The court shall not limit duration of the last plea of the accused by a certain time. The accused may not be asked questions during his/her last plea. Judges shall not disclose the course of deliberations and passing of the judgment in the deliberations room. The court’s ruling shall be made in deliberations room in compliance with the rules laid down in this Article. The court shall take note of the pre-trial report with information about the socio-psychological characteristics of the accused. If several individuals are accused, the court shall decide on issues referred to in this Article, separately in respect of each of the defendants. A compulsory medical measure may be applied to a person who committed criminal offence in a state of partial insanity, if there exist a respective psychiatric expert examination report and a conclusion of a medical treatment institution. Court decision in which the court decides on the substance of litigation shall be stated in the form of a judgment. The court of cassation in the cases provided for by this Code shall adopt resolutions. Decisions in electronic form shall be executed in accordance with the requirements of the legislation in the area of electronic documents. The ruling passed by the court without retiring into deliberations room shall contain findings of the court and motives based on which the court arrived at such findings. Judgment of acquittal shall be delivered whenever the court establishes grounds for closing criminal proceedings as specified in clauses 1 and 2, part 4 of Article 284 hereof. Where the defendant is found guilty of the commission of criminal offence, the court shall deliver judgment of conviction. Judgment must state: 1) where a person has been acquitted, with statement of charges brought against the person and found by court to not be proved, as well as grounds for acquittal of the defendant. 2) if aperson has been found guilty, with indication of place, time, and the way of commission and implications of the criminal offence, form of guilt, and motives. 3) law of Ukraine on criminal liability which provides for thecriminal offence in the commission of which the person concerned is accused. 4. Operative part of a judgment, including decision to close proceedings in respect of a legal entity and decision to restore rights restricted during the criminal proceedings. Judgment includes last name, first name and patronymic of the defendant, decision on finding him/her guilty of charges brought against him/hers and respective Article (part of the Article) of the Law of Ukraine on criminal liability. Decision to apply compulsory medical treatment or compulsory medical measures in respect of a defendant with partial insanity, if any; decision to appoint public tutor for the underage person. A court decision shall be pronounced publicly immediately after the court has left deliberations room. A copy of the judgment in the defendant’s language or in other language he/she knows, in translation certified by a translator shall be handed over to the defendant. The defendant committed to custody as a measure of restraint shall be advised of the right to submit motion to be brought to court. Participants to court proceedings shall have the right to obtain in court a copy of the court’s judgment or ruling (resolution) The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine shall be informed about the sentence on a person who is a state executive officer no later than the next day after it is passed. The court, proprio motu or upon the motion of a participant to criminal proceedings or of other individual concerned, shall have the right to correct clerical errors, obvious arithmetic errors committed in the decision of this court. Participants to court proceedings shall be informed on the date, time, and place of the court session. Failure of individuals to appear in court does not preclude consideration of the issue of introducing corrections.  Simplified procedure concerning criminal misdemeanours shall be provided in accordance with the general rules of judicial proceedings stipulated by this Code. The court shall have the right to schedule the hearing in the court session of the indictment which was submitted with the motion to consider it in simplified procedure, and to summon the participants to the criminal proceedings to take part in this court's hearing. The public prosecutor and the court shall explain to the person accused of committing a crime punishable with life imprisonment the possibility and specific aspects of hearing his/her case in criminal proceedings in the trial by jury. Written summons shall be served to a juror against receipt not later than five days before the date of the court session. A juror shall have the right to: 1) participate in examination of all information and evidence in the course of a court session; 2) take notes; 3) pose questions to the accused, the victim, witnesses, experts and other persons being examined. A juror shall honestly answer the questions asked by the presiding judge and participants to court proceedings regarding possible impediments to his/her participation in the trial. Jurors shall not talk about the essence of the criminal proceedings and the procedural actions conducted during them with the persons who are not part of the court. Each juror who appears in the court may be challenged by the participants on the grounds prescribed by Articles 75 and 76. All issues related to the dismissal of jurors from participation in trial, as well as the issues associated with self-recusations and recusations of jurors shall be decided by a ruling of the court composed of two judges. Where the judges do not reach a unanimous decision, a juror shall be deemed dismissed from the criminal proceedings or recused. The public prosecutor, the accused, the victim and other participants to the criminal proceedings shall be prohibited to communicate with the jurors other than in accordance with the procedure stipulated by this Code. The text of the oath shall be read out by each juror, after which he shall confirm that his rights, duties and competence are understood. Rulings rendered during court proceedings in the court of first instance prior to the adoption of court decisions provided for by part 1 of Article shall not be subject to a separate appeal, except in cases specified by this Code. Investigating judge’s rulings may also be challenged under appellate procedure. A court of first instance’s judgment based on an agreement of conciliation between the victim and the suspect or accused may be challenged under appellate procedure by: a third party, to the extent related to its interests when disposing the issue of asset forfeiture; 9-3) the whistleblower. Article 394. Specific aspects of appellate challenge of certain court decisions. A court of first instance’s judgment based on an agreement between public prosecutor and the suspect or accused on a guilty plea may be challenged. The accused, his/her defence counsel, legal representative exclusively on the following grounds: imposition by court of a more severe punishment than has been agreed upon between the parties to an agreement. Appellate complaint may be filed within thirty days from the date of pronouncement. Time limit for filing appellate complaint for persons kept in custody is five days. No one shall demand and obtain records of criminal proceedings from the court. During this period, the court shall provide participants to court proceedings, upon their request, the possibility to examine the records of the criminal proceedings. Appellate complaint shall be signed by the appellant. Where the appellant is not willing to participate in the appellate procedure, he/she shall state it in his/her appellate complaint. Where appellate complaint is filed by defence counsel or victim’s representative, it shall have attached duly drawn up documents certifying his or her powers. An appellate complaint against judgment or ruling of the court of first instance has been filed in violation of requirements of Article 396 hereof. The judge-rapporteur shall pass the ruling to take no action on the appellate complaint such ruling stating shortcomings of the complaint and fixing a time limit which is sufficient to eliminate shortcomings. Filing an appellate complaint against judgment or ruling of the court shall deter the taking of legal effect by such decisions and execution thereof, except in cases specified in this Code. Filing an appeal against the decision of the investigating judge, the court's decision to choose a measure of restraint in the form of detention, shall not deter its implementation. Persons indicated in Article 393 hereof may file with the court of appellate instance objections to the appellate complaint against judgment or ruling of court of first instance. Objection to appellate complaint shall state: name of the appellate court; last name, first name, patronymic, place of residence (stay) of the objector, as well as the number of communication means, e-mail address, if any. Court of appellate instance shall have the right to go beyond the scope of the appellate demands where the status of the accused or the person in respect to whom the issue has been disposed of applying compulsory medical or reformatory measures, is not aggravated thereby. Court of appellate instances may examine evidence which was not examined by the court of first instance. The court of appellate instance shall have the right to take a decision based on the results of written proceedings. The accused who took part in the appeal review shall be given the floor for his/her last plea. A copy of the court’s decision shall be sent to the participants to the court proceedings within three days from the date it was signed. Court of appellate instance shall change a judgment in the following cases: 1) mitigation of the imposed punishment where it finds that the punishment by its severity is inconsistent with the gravity of the criminal offence and the personality of the accused. 2) reducing the amounts subject to exaction, or increasing such amounts where such increase shall not affect the scope of accusation. A trial shall be deemed incomplete where circumstances which may have been important for rendering a lawful, reasoned and fair judgment were not investigated during such trial. Court of appellate instance shall not have the right to set aside a ruling not to apply compulsory medical or reformatory measures, based only on motives of substantial violation of rights of the person. In the presence of grounds for closure of the court proceedings on a criminal case it was not closed. Wrong application of the Law of Ukraine on criminal liability entailing setting aside or changing a court decision. Inconsistency of imposed punishment with the degree of gravity of the criminal offence and the personality of the accused. The court of first instance shall not have the right to decide in advance on the issue of whether charges were proved or not, whether evidence was reliable or not. Findings and motives of setting aside court decisions, shall be binding on the court ofFirst instance in the new trial. In the new proceedings in the court, it shall be permitted to apply a statute pertaining to a more grave criminal offence. The court of appeals can set aside the judgment of the court of first instance and pass its own judgment in the following cases: necessity to apply a law on a more grave criminal offence or to increase the scope of charges. The ruling shall indicate what Articles of the law have been breached and exactly what such infringements were. A court of appellate instance’s judgment shall be required to comply with general requirements for sentencing decisions. Inadmissibility of deterioration of the legal position of the accused. A ruling of a court of first instance to apply compulsory medical or reformatory measures may be overturned in connection with the necessity to apply statutory provision. Ruling of a court of first instance may be overturned with the purpose to aggravate the position of the person in respect of whom it was passed, only where an appellate complaint based on such grounds was filed by the public prosecutor, victim or his/her representative. Ruling on choosing a measure of restraint in the form of detention, as well as on extending the term of detention issued during court proceedings. Appeals against the decision of the court on the choice of a measure of restraint in the form of detention, as well as on the extension of detention shall be considered no later than three days after their receipt by the appellate court. Consideration of an appeal against a court decision. shall be conducted without the participation of the parties to the criminal proceedings, unless the public prosecutor, accused, his/her defence counsel or legal representative has filed a motion for the consideration of the appellate complaint. Court of first instance’s judgments and rulings on the application or refusal to apply compulsory medical or reformatory measures, after review thereof under appellate procedure, may be challenged under cassation procedure. Objections to other rulings can be included in a cassation complaint against a court decision made following appeal proceedings. A cassation complaint shall be filed by: 1) a convict, his/her legal representative or defence counsel, as regards the convict’s interests. 2) a suspect, accused, or the underage person himself/herself, in respect to whom the issue was disposed on the application of compulsory reformatory measures. 3) by the public prosecutor exceptionally for the reasons of the court having set a less severe penalty than the one agreed upon by the parties. Cassation complaint against court decisions shall be filed within three months from the date on which decision of the court of appellate instance was pronounced. During the period fixed for cassation challenge, records of criminal proceedings shall not be demanded and obtained from the court which executes the court decision. The court of cassation instance shall have the right to refuse to open cassation proceedings on the grounds specified in clause 1, part 2 of this Article. A copy of the ruling not to take action on the cassation complaint shall be immediately sent to the person who has filed the cassated complaint. A cassation complaint is filed against a court decision which is not subject to challenging under cassation procedure. Judge-rapporteur within ten days after cassation proceedings have been opened without summoning the parties to the criminal proceedings shall send copies of cassation complaints to the participants to the court proceedings. Ruling on termination of preparation and assignment of the cassation trial shall be passed. A convict shall be subject to mandatory summoning. Court of cassation shall review judgments of first and appellate instance courts within the scope of the cassation complaint. Cassation review shall be conducted in accordance with the rules of trial in a court of appellate instance, with due account of the specific aspects provided for by this Article. The parties to the criminal proceedings and other participants to the court proceedings shall produce their arguments. The first to produce arguments shall be the person who has filed the cassation complaint. The court shall have the right to limit the duration of producing arguments and fix an equal lapse of time for all the participants to court proceedings. The issue of transferring criminal proceedings to the Chamber, the Joint Chamber or the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court shall be decided by the court on its own initiative or at the request of a party to the case. A court which hears criminal proceedings under cassation procedure within a panel of judges, a chamber or a Joint Chamber shall refer such criminal proceedings. A judge who does not agree with the decision to transfer (refusal to transfer) criminal proceedings to the Chamber, the Joint Chamber or Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court shall state his dissenting opinion in writing. If the Grand Chamber decides that there are no grounds for transferring criminal proceedings for its consideration, such criminal proceedings shall be returned to the respective panel. The court of cassation instance has the right to reverse a judgment of acquittal, a ruling to refuse to apply compulsory medical or reformatory measures, or a ruling closing criminal proceedings only based on motives of significant infringement of the rights of the accused or a person in whose respect the issue was decided. Grounds for reversing or changing court decisions include significant non-compliance with the requirements of the criminal procedure law and wrong application of the Law of Ukraine on criminal liability. In a new proceedings in the court of first or appellate instance, the application of more severe punishment or of a statute providing for more grave offence, shall only be admissible provided that the judgment was reversed in connection with the necessity to apply a statute. The court of cassation instance shall reverse the judgment of conviction or the ruling and close criminal proceedings. The law of Ukraine on the criminal liability provides for the criminal offence in the commission of which the person concerned is suspected or accused. The decision of the Supreme Court shall be final and not subject to appeal. Court decisions which have taken legal effect may be reviewed upon discovery of new or exceptional circumstances. Ukrainian courts have the right to review court decisions upon discovery of new or exceptional circumstances. Review of court decisions on newly discovered circumstances in case of adoption of new laws, other regulatory acts, which repealed laws, which were in force at the time of the proceedings, shall not be allowed. Review of the court decision upon discovery of new circumstances shall not be limited by any periods. A request for reviewing a court decision under exceptional circumstances may be filed within thirty days from the date of official promulgation of the respective judgement passed by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Requests must be lodged in written form.  request for a copy of the decision of an international judicial institution whose jurisdiction is recognised by Ukraine. Request shall be signed by the requester. Copies of the request in the number necessary for sending to the parties to the criminal proceedings and other participants to the court proceedings shall be attached to the request. The court has the right to suspend execution of the court decision which is being reviewed upon discovery of new or exceptional circumstances till the end of the review. A person who has withdrawn his/her request to review court decision upon discoveryof new orexceptional circumstances shall not have theright to file with the court a new request on the same grounds. The court shall have the right to reverse the judgment or ruling and render a new judgment or pass a ruling, or dismiss the request to review a court decision upon discovery of new or exceptional circumstances. A court decision taken as a result of the criminal proceedings may be challenged as prescribed by this Code. A reconciliation agreement between the victim and the suspect or accused may be concluded in the proceedings in respect of criminal misdemeanours and minor crimes, and in the criminal proceedings in the form of private prosecution. Conclusion of a plea agreement in the. criminal proceedings against an authorised person of a legal entity that has committed a criminal offence in. respect of which proceedings are taken is inadmissible. Criminal proceedings in relation to the person (persons) with whom agreement was reached shall be subject to disjoining in separate proceedings. Where several victims, who have suffered from one (the same) criminal offence, participate in the criminal proceedings, the agreement may only be concluded and approved with all victims. A plea agreement shall indicate its parties, statement of the suspicion or charges and their legal determination with the reference to the Article (part of the Article) of the Law of Ukraine on criminal liability. It also includes the circumstances essential for the criminal proceedings concerned, unconditional admission by the suspect or the accused of his/her guilt in committing criminal offence. Where an agreement was reached at the stage of pre-trial investigation, the indictment together with the agreement signed by the parties thereto shall be referred to court without delay. The court shall examine the agreement during the preparatory court session with compulsory participation of the parties and notification of other participants to the court proceedings. The court shall make sure during the court session that the agreement was concluded by the parties thereto voluntarily, that is without use of compulsion, threats or promises. The court shall verify whether the agreement complies with the requirements of this Code and/or the law. Addressing the court for the approval of another agreement during the same criminal proceedings shall not be allowed.  Judgment based on the agreement shall meet general requirements for judgments of guilty with due regard for the specific aspects set forth in part 3 of this Article. In case of non-execution of the reconciliation agreement or plea agreement, the victim or the public prosecutor, respectively, shall have the right to address the court with the motion to revoke the judgment. The court, by its ruling, shall revoke the judgment by which the agreement was approved, provided the person who has filed the corresponding motion proves that the convict failed to fulfil the terms and conditions of the agreement. The revocation of the judgment shall entail scheduling the court proceedings in accordance with the regular procedure, or returning the records of proceedings for the completion of the pre-trial investigation. Criminal proceedings with regard to a specific category of individuals Article 480. Individuals subject to special procedure of criminal proceedings. Article 481. Information that may indicate the commission of a criminal offence by a judge of the High Anti-Corruption Court shall be entered into the Unified Register of Pre-Trial Investigations. A judge shall not be apprehended or be subject to an imposed measure of restraint in the form of detention or arrest without consent of the Supreme Council of Justice. A judge detained on suspicion of committing an act for which criminal liability has been established shall be released immediately after his identity is established. A member of Parliament, a candidate for the office of the President of Ukraine, a juror during performance of his/her duties in the court, officials of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine or his deputy may make a written notice of suspicion. Procedure for prosecuting, detaining, choosing a measure of restraint, conducting investigative (detective) and covert investigative (Detective) actions against a Member of Parliament of Ukraine. Article 482-1. Detention of a judge during or immediately after the commission of a grave or special grave crime, where such detention is necessary.  detention of a Member of Parliament of Ukraine shall be permitted only where the latter was caught during or immediately after committing a grave or special grave crime, related to the use of violence, or that caused the death of a person. The body or officials who detained the Member of parliament of Ukraine, informed him of the suspicion or applied a measure of restraint against him/her shall immediately inform the Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. Criminal proceedings against an underage person, particularly criminal proceedings against a group of persons of whom at least one is underage, shall be conducted by an investigator who is specially authorised by the chief officer of a pre-trial investigation agency. The investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge, court and all other persons participating therein shall perform procedural actions in a manner which intrudes the least on the underage person’s usual way of life. Psychological examination may be assigned to establish the level of development, other social and psychological personal traits of the underage suspect or defendant which shall be taken into account imposing a punishment or enforcing a measure of restraint of reformatory nature. Comprehensive psychology-psychiatric and psychological examination shall be assigned where it is necessary to find out if the suspect has a mental disease. Interrogation of an underage suspect or defendant shall be conducted in compliance with the rules laid down in this Code, in the presence of a defence counsel. Apprehension and keeping in custody may be applied to an underage person only where he/she is suspected or accused of committing a grave or special grave crime. Underage suspect or accused committed to supervision of parents, custodians, caretakers or administration of children care institution. Parents, custodian or caretaker shall be subject to imposition of pecuniary penalty in the amount of 2 to 5 times minimum wages. Underage person suspected of having committed criminal offence together with an adult. The court shall inform on the time and place of judicial proceedings involving underage accused. Representatives of children’s services and authorised unit of the National Police shall have the right to submit motions, pose questions to the underage accused, his/her legal representative, victim, witnesses, expert and specialist. Underage persons who have not attained the age of criminal discretion may be subject to compulsory reformatory measures. Pre-trial investigation in criminal proceedings regarding imposition of compulsory reformatory measures shall be conducted as prescribed by this Code. Participation of a defence counsel incriminal proceedings shall be mandatory. If there are no grounds for closing criminal proceedings, the public prosecutor shall approve a motion drawn up by the investigator, draw the motion himself/herself, and send it to his court. Court proceedings shall end in passing a ruling on the application of compulsory reformatory measures or on refusal to apply such measures. The court in whose territorial jurisdiction operates the special educational reformatory institution may by its ruling release the underage concerned from the compulsory reformatories ahead of time as prescribed by this Code. Criminal proceedings in respect of imposition of compulsory medical measures provided for the by the law of Ukraine on criminal liability shall be conducted where there are reasonable grounds for believing that a person has committed a socially dangerous act. Compulsory medical measures shall be applied only to persons who are socially dangerous. The court may take into account the state of partial insanity as the grounds for application of medical measures. The court shall impose measures of restraint to the person as soon as the fact of mental disorder or mental disease has been established. The court may apply to a person in whose respect it is provided to apply compulsory medical measures or the matter of applying was considered the following measure of restraint: commitment for care to custodians, close relatives or family members. Criminal proceedings regarding application of a compulsory medical measure may be joined in one or disjoined in separate proceedings where grounds specified in this Code are present. In-hospital psychiatric examination may be undertaken, for which purpose he/she shall be placed in an appropriate medical institution for the period which shall not exceed two months. Court proceedings shall be conducted in a court session by a sole judge. The court proceedings shall end with passing of a ruling on the application of the compulsory medical measures or on the refusal to apply them. The public prosecutor shall approve a motion drawn up by the investigator, or himself/herself draw up the motion to apply compulsory medical measure. Court may close criminal proceedings regarding application of compulsory medical measures. Court may also close proceedings where insanity of the person at the moment of the commission of the socially dangerous action has not been established. The public prosecutor shall commence criminal proceedings under general procedure after the court closes the criminal proceedings. The extension of the application of compulsory medical measures imposed by a court in a foreign state to a person extradited to Ukraine shall be decided based on the outcomes of court hearings. Pre-trial investigation and trial in criminal proceedings involving information that constitutes a state secret shall be conducted in accordance with rules governing secrecy order. Criminal proceedings involving information that constitutes state secret shall be accessible to persons with an appropriate security clearance for state secret. Access to records containing state secret will be granted to defence counsels and legal representatives of the suspect, accused, victim, interpreter, expert, specialist, court clerk, court administrator. The victim and his/her representatives will not be allowed to take notes from and copy records containingState Secret. Expert examination regarding the legality of classifying information in the area of defence, economy, science and technology, foreign relations, state security and law enforcement, as state secret. Expert examination on damage caused to national security in case of disclosure of secret information or loss of physical media containing such information. Officials referred to in part 1 of Article 519 of this Code shall immediately conduct necessary procedural actions after they have become aware, from an application, report, on their own detection or from any other source, of circumstances which are likely to show that a criminal offence has been committed in the territory of the diplomatic mission. Pre-trial investigation of a criminal offence committed in the territory of a diplomatic mission, consular post of Ukraine abroad shall be conducted by the investigator of the pre-trial. investigation agency whose jurisdiction extends to the territory where the central executive authority in the area of foreign affairs of Ukraine is located. The court has the right to examine as witnesses persons who were present during the conduct of procedural actions, persons (their representatives) who participated in trial and, where necessary, persons who made part of the court which held trial. The court’s decision on restoration of the records of lost criminal proceedings shall state on the basis of specific evidences. Court decisions enter into legal force after the expiry of the time limit for lodging an appeal complaint. Rulings by an investigating judge and a court which may not be appealed shall enter intolegal force upon their pronouncement. The order of execution of court decisions in the criminal proceedings can be specified in the court decision itself. A court decision which has entered into legal force, unless this Code provides otherwise, shall be enforced within three days. The court shall send the copy of the decision, together with its order to execute it, to the authority or institution which has been charged with the execution of the court decision. Article 536. Deferral of execution of sentence. The court specified in part 2 of Article539 of this Code shall have the right to decide on the following issues: 1) on deferral of execution of sentence; 2) on granting parole; 3) on replacing unserved part of sentence with milder sentence; 4) on releasing from serving their sentence pregnant women and women having children up to three years old; 5) on sending women who have been released from serving. their sentences because of pregnancy or having children. up to 3 years old, to serve their sentences. 6) on freeing from serving the sentence due to illness; 7) on imposing compulsory medical treatment on the sentenced person and terminating thereof; 8) on Sending a person released on probation, to serving the sentences imposed. 9) on release from service of the sentence imposed with probation on expiry of the probation period; 10) on substituting punishment as provided for by part 5 of Article53, part 3 of Article57, part 1 of Article58, part1 of Article62. Court has right to consider clearance of record of conviction of person, upon his/her motion. A victim, civil plaintiff, civil defendant and other persons shall have the right to file motions with the court, seeking decisions concerning directly their rights, duties or legitimate interests. Issues which arise at the time and after execution of a sentence shall be decided by court upon the motion (submission) of a public prosecutor. A motion (request) for deciding on a matter related to execution of a conviction shall be considered within ten days of its filing by a sole judge. Motions (requests) on the application of sanctions to persons deprived of their liberty in the form of transfer of a convict to a cell-type room (individual cell) and on forced feeding of a convicted person shall be consideration within 24 hours from the receipt of the motion. Summons to attend the court session shall be sent to the convict, his/her defence counsel, legal representative, and the public prosecutor. Where a court’s ruling to dismiss a motion for parole or commutation of a sentence becomes valid, a repeat motion on the same matter filed by persons sentenced to imprisonment of not less than five years. Time spent by a sentenced person in a medical institution during his/her serving the sentence in the form of deprivation of liberty, shall be credited to the service of sentence. 5) requested party shall mean the state to whose competent authority the request is sent. 6) designated (central) authority shall mean an authority empowered to consider, on behalf of the state, the request of a competent authority of another state or international judicial institution. 8) extradition examination shall mean activities of authorities aimed to establish and examine the circumstances that may prevent the surrender (extradition) of a person. In the absence of an international treaty of Ukraine, international legal aid or any other co-operation may be provided upon the request from another state, or requested on the basis of reciprocity. The Prosecutor General’s Office of Ukraine shall make requests for international legal help in criminal proceedings during a pre-trial investigation and consider similar requests from foreign competent authorities. Information may be transmitted to the requesting party exceptionally through the designated (central) authority of Ukraine. Such information will not harm the interests of Ukraine or such other state which has provided it to Ukraine. A request for international cooperation can be drawn up by an authority conducting criminal proceedings. Physical and documents transferred by the requested Party pursuant to the request (letters rogatory, motions) of a Ukrainian competent authority within the procedure of international co-operation shall be kept under the rules established herein for the keeping of physical evidence and documents. Documents which are forwarded in connection with the request for international assistance where they are drawn up and certified in the appropriate form by an official of the competent authority of the requesting party. The request may be drawn up in the form of a letter rogatory. In case of taking decision to forward a request, designated (central) authority of Ukraine within ten days shall send the request to the requested party, directly or via diplomatic channels. If request is refused, all records shall be returned to appropriate authority. A request for international legal aid shall be approved in writing by the public prosecutor monitoring compliance with the law during a pre-trial investigation. The Prosecutor General’s Office of Ukraine shall have the right, within the scope of its powers, to issue orders to ensure proper, full and timely execution of a request. Ukrainian authorities have the right to take additional measures to ensure confidentiality of the fact of receipt of a request for international legal aid. Request of the requesting party for legal aid may be rejected in cases specified in the international treaty of Ukraine. Refusal to execute request may be refused where: 1) execution of the request will contradict the constitutional principles. The request pertains to a criminal offence which is the subject of pre-trial investigation or court proceedings in Ukraine. A request from a foreign competent authority for international legal aid shall be executed within one month of the date of its receipt by the actual executor. The time period for its execution may be extended by a central authority of Ukraine. The documents drawn up by a pre-trial investigation agency, an investigator, a public prosecutor, or a judge to execute a request for international legal aid shall be signed by the officials concerned. The documents obtained over the course of the execution of a request shall be sent to a competent foreign authority in accordance with the procedure established by the respective international treaty. Any procedural actions as provided for by this Code or international treaty may be conducted in the territory of Ukraine to execute a request for international legal aid. Where the request is executed incorrectly or incompletely, the designated (central) authority shall have the right to request that additional measures be taken to execute the request. People referred to in part 1 of this Article shall have the right to watch the execution of procedural actions and make comments and suggestions. An investigator, a public prosecutor or a court may summon a person to serve documents to that person. If a person fails to appear without valid excuse, the enforcement procedure specified by this Code may be applied. A person who is detained or serves a punishment in the form of imprisonment in the territory of a foreign state and is not convicted of a criminal offence in those particular criminal proceedings is required to give testimony or participate in other procedural activities. A request for temporary surrender shall be drawn up and submitted in accordance with the procedure specified in Articles 548, 551, and 552 of this Code. A suspect, defendant or convict may be arrested or subjected to a restraint measure or execution of a sentence only for an offence specified in the summons. All guarantees specified in this Article shall be void where, being in a position to leave the territory of Ukraine, a summoned person fails to do so. Ukrainian authorities can detect and arrest assets, money and valuables corresponding to any of the elements provided for by part 1 of Article96-2 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Rules laid down in this Article shall apply to the examinations conducted through video or telephone conference upon requests of the competent authority. Joint investigative groups may be set up to conduct pre-trial investigation of circumstances of criminal offences committed in the territories of several states. The Prosecutor-General’s Office of Ukraine shall consider and decide the issue related to setting up joint investigative groups, upon request of the investigator, public prosecutor, and foreign competent authorities. Appeal of decisions, acts or omissions by government authorities, their officials or officers; reparation of inflicted damages and expenses related to the provision of international legal aid in the territory of Ukraine. Expenses related to providing legal aid shall be paid using state budget funds appropriated for maintenance of pre-trial investigation agencies. Central authorities of Ukraine for extradition are Prosecutor General’s Office and Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Requests for temporary extradition and transit shall be submitted and considered in accordance with the same procedures that apply to requests for extradition. A central authority of Ukraine shall have the right to refuse to send the request to a foreign state where circumstances referred to in this Code or the international treaty of Ukraine may preclude extradition. A request shall be drawn up in writing and contain information about a person whose extradition is requested, and the circumstances and the assessment of the offence committed by that person. A request for extradition shall be submitted by the chief officer of a central authority of Ukraine or a duly authorised person within five days from the date of receipt of a request. The request and documents specified in part 2 of this Article shall be signed by an investigator, a public prosecutor or a judge. A person who has been extradited to Ukraine may be held criminally liable or a sentence can be enforced against this person only in respect to a criminal offence for which the surrender (extradition) was requested for. Limitations expressed by the competent authority of a foreign state when taking the decision to surrender a person to Ukraine, shall be mandatory for taking respective procedural decisions. Public prosecutor shall send to the central authority of Ukraine a notice on the results of criminal proceedings against the extradited person. The person concerned shall be returned to the respective foreign state by the time agreed upon. The time spent in custody based on the decision of a competent authority of a foreign state during provisional extradition shall not be credited to the total term of serving the sentence imposed by Ukrainian court. A person in whose respect the issue of surrender (extradition) is being considered and who has no knowledge of the state language shall be ensured the right to make statements, file pleas, familiarise with the records of criminal proceedings, speak in the court in the language the person knows. A detained person shall be released immediately where: 1) within sixty hours after detention the person was not taken to an investigating judge for entertaining a request for choosing a preventive measure. A person that has committed a crime out of borders of Ukraine shall be held under provisional arrest for the term of up to forty days or another period of time as stipulated in the respective international treaty. The procedure for detention of such persons and the treatment of their complaints to being detained shall be exercised according to Articles 206 and 208 of this Code. The court shall decide on the approval of the person's surrender (extradition) and the application of extradition arrest. The person against whom provisional arrest is exercised, his/her defence council or a legal representative, and a public prosecutor may appeal against the ruling of the investigating judge. Release of a person from provisional arrest due to the request of extradition arriving late to the central authority of Ukraine shall not prevent from exercising an extradition arrest against this person. The investigating judge shall be guided by the provisions of this Code and the international treaty, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. The terms of detention and the procedures for extending these terms shall be established by this Code. If the request for extradition is received before the end of the term of provisional arrest, the ruling of the investigating judge on the exercising of provisional arrested shall lose legal effect. Extradition arrest shall be exercised until the issue of surrender (extradition) is settled and the transfer of the person actually takes place. The investigating judge of the court on whose territorial jurisdiction the person is kept in custody shall examine the availability of grounds for releasing the person, but no more than once a month. The release of the person from extradition arrest by the investigating judge shall not prevent its repeated application in order to transfer the person to a foreign state. A person to whom extradition arrest has been applied shall have the right to submit a written statement of consent to his/her surrender (extradition) The central authority of Ukraine has not received a request for surrender (extradition) of this person within the period of time set forth in the international treaty of Ukraine. A person in respect of whom a measure of restraint other than to detention has been applied shall have the right to submit a written request for consent to his/her surrender. The authorised (central) body of Ukraine may apply the procedure of surrender of a person (extradition) under simplified procedure only with the consent of such person. A person shall have the right at any time to submit to the investigating judge a written request for consent to his/her surrender. The person's refusal to apply a special rule on the limits of criminal liability may be revoked by the person. The authorised (central) body of Ukraine shall make a decision on surrender (extradition) under simplified procedure or on refusal to surrender a person. The decision shall be made by the chief officer of the authorised ( central) body and shall be final and not subject to appeal. Information on whether the sentence was passed in the absence of the accused (in absentia) is also required to consider surrender. The authorised (central) body of Ukraine shall refuse to surrender a person (extradite) under simplified procedure in the following cases: 1) in case of bringing a person to criminal responsibility or serving a sentence in the territory of Ukraine; 2) where there are reasonable grounds to believe that the person in respect of whom the issue of surrender (Extradition) is being considered is a citizen of Ukraine. 3) where the surrender of the said person may be contrary to the essential interests of national security of Ukraine, or where the competent authority of a foreign state has not provided the information specified in part 6 of this Article. A person who has been recognised a refugee or a person requiring subsidiary protection in Ukraine may not be extradited to a foreign state where his/her health, life or liberty may be in jeopardy. The Prosecutor General’s Office of Ukraine, upon request of the competent authority of the foreign state, shall instruct to carry out pre-trial investigation in respect of such person. A decision to grant a request for extradition of a person shall not be passed if such person has filed an application for the status of a refugee or person requiring subsidiary protection. The investigating judge shall consider the appeal within five days of its receipt by the court. The hearing shall be held with the participation of the public prosecutor, the person regarding whom the decision to extradite has been taken, his/her defence counsel or legal representative. The central authority of Ukraine may stay surrender of the person to the foreign state as a matter of fact. The person requested for surrender (extradition) is seriously ill and may not for reasons of health be surrendered without harm to his/her health, – until recovery. A decision of an appellate court may be appealed on cassation only by a public prosecutor on the grounds of the wrong application of the rules. A person extradited to Ukraine by decision of a foreign state shall be delivered to the penal institution by the competent authority of Ukraine. Expenses incurred in the territory of Ukraine in connection with deciding on extradition of a person shall be deemed procedural expenses under this Code. Criminal proceedings, in which judicial authorities have not rendered a sentence, may be taken over by Ukraine under the following conditions. Criminal proceedings may not be taken over if: 1) provisions of part 2 of Article595 of this Code or of the international treaty, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, are not complied with. 2) a judgment of acquittal was delivered in Ukraine in respect of the same person and in connection with the same criminal offence. 3) a condemnatory sentence was delivered. in Ukraine. 4) a decision to close criminal proceedings or to release from serving punishment in connection. with pardon or amnesty was taken. 5) proceedings inrespect of the criminal offence concerned may not. be conducted because of expiry of the statute of limitations. Unfinished criminal proceedings may be transferred to another state on condition that extradition of the person subject to prosecution is impossible, or where extradition of such person to Ukraine was refused. A copy of the final procedural decision which has entered into legal force shall be sent to the competent authority of the requesting state. Criminal proceedings transferred from Ukraine are closed by the competent authority of a foreign state at the stage of pre-trial investigation. It shall preclude resumption of proceedings in Ukraine and further investigation under the rules of this Code unless otherwise provided for by an international treaty. Available physical evidence shall be transferred with the request and the documents specified in part 3 of this Article. A request for execution of a sentence imposed by a foreign court may be refused where such execution contradicts any obligations of Ukraine under its international treaties. Sentences delivered in absentia, that is without participation of the person concerned in criminal proceedings, by courts of foreign states, shall not be enforced in Ukraine. The court shall verify whether requirements of the international treat, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, were complied with. The court shall decide on the issue of applying a measure of restraint until the ruling enters into legal force. The period spent by the person in custody in connection with the consideration of the request to enforce a sentence of the foreign state’s court shall be credited to the total term of punishment. A person sentenced by a court of Ukraine may be transferred to another state for serving the sentence imposed. While a national of Ukraine sentenced by foreign court, may be taken over for serving sentence. Conditions for transfer of sentenced persons and taking over thereof for serving their sentences are outlined in Article606. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine may refuse to transfer or admit the sentenced person, unless this Code or the respective international treaty of Ukraine provide otherwise. The sentenced person or his/her legal representative shall have the right to obtain legal aid in the form of legal advice with regard to the consequences of their consent. A sentenced person who consented to the transfer to the foreign state for further service of punishment may refuse. The issue of the transfer of persons sentenced by Ukrainian courts to imprisonment, for serving the sentence in the state of their nationality, shall be decided on by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Provisions of this part do not preclude sentenced nationals of other states from applying for the transfer. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine shall inform the sentencing court of the decision to transfer the sentenced person, as well as ensure that the court is informed on how the sentence has been executed in the foreign state concerned. Whenever an amnesty is declared in Ukraine, the court shall consider the issue of applying amnesty to such sentenced person. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine shall apply to a court to bring a sentence of foreign state’s court into accordance with the Ukrainian law. The hearing shall be held with the participation of a public prosecutor. If the request for transfer is granted, the information thereon, together with a copy of the court ruling passed, shall be sent to the sentencing state. The court shall determine Articles (parts of Articles) of the law of Ukraine on criminal liability which establish liability for the criminal offence committed by the sentenced Ukrainian national. When deciding on the length of a prison sentence to be served based on the foreign state’s court sentence, the court shall be consistent with the term of punishment imposed in such sentence, except in the following cases. The sentence in respect of a transferred person sentenced by a foreign state’s court shall be executed in Ukraine in accordance with laws of Ukraine governing execution of criminal sentences. Legal consequences for the convict transferred to Ukraine for serving his/her sentence shall be the same as for the persons sentenced in Ukraine for the commission of similar criminal offences. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine shall inform the designated (central) authority of the sentencing state on the progress or results of execution. The issue of continuing criminal proceedings shall be decided by the Prosecutor General’s Office of Ukraine as prescribed by this Code. Expenses related to the transfer of a foreigner convicted in Ukraine, to the state of his/her nationality for continued serving of his or her sentence, shall be borne by the state. Part 4 of Article216 of this Code shall enter into effect from the first date of operation of the State Bureau of Investigation of Ukraine, but not later than five years from the date of entry into force. part 5 of Article181 (as far as the possibility to use the electronic monitoring devices is concerned), clause 9 of part 5. of Article194, Article195. clauses 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 of Section XІ “Transitional Provisions” which shall enter. into force from the day of promulgation of the Code. The transfer of criminal proceedings to the State Bureau of Investigations shall be conducted with due account of the aspects defined by the Law Of Ukraine “On the Stateureau of Investigations” The powers of pre-trial investigation of crimes committed by it shall be exercised by the investigators of the prosecutor's office. Criminal cases that, on the day when this Code enters into force, are undergoing proceedings by the inquiry agencies shall be transferred to appropriate pre-trial investigation bodies. Admissibility of the evidence obtained before the effective date of this Code shall be determined under the procedure. Measures of restraint, arrest of assets, and removal from office applied before this Code has entered into force shall remain valid. Criminal cases referred by the public prosecutors to the court with an indictment, a determination on application of compulsory measures of medical or reformatory nature, shall be considered by the courts of first instance. Investigation of criminal cases provided for by clause 11 of this Section in the event where such cases are remanded by the court to the public prosecutor for additional investigation shall be conducted under the procedure established by this Code. Non-appealed judgments, which did not enter into legal force as of the day when this Code entered into force, shall enter intoLegal force under procedure. Person who participate in criminal proceedings as defence councils and do not have the status of a lawyer shall continue to execute powers of defence councils. Applications for review of the judgments on the basis of newly discovered circumstances submitted to a court before this Code has entered into force shall be considered by the respective courts. Special pre-trial investigation shall be conducted on the basis of the ruling of the investigating judge in the criminal proceedings concerning the crimes provided for by Article109, 110, 110-2, 111, 112, 113, 114, 114-1, 115, parts 2–5 of Article191(in case of abuse of official position by an official) Criminal proceedings in respect of the offences set forth in part 2 of Article297 -1 hereof, as well as in this clause, may be conducted in the absence of the accused (in absentia) except for a minor who is hiding from the investigation and court in order to avoid criminal liability. Re-application for a special pre-trial investigation to the investigating judge in one criminal proceeding shall not be allowed, except for the presence of new circumstances. The jurisdiction of the High Anti-Corruption Court provided for by this Code shall apply to criminal proceedings, information on which criminal offences are entered in the Unified Register of Pre-Trial Investigations. Criminal cases pending before that court shall be considered taking into account the rules of special court proceedings and the specific aspects stipulated by this clause. Criminal proceedings in which a special pre-trial investigation has been carried out and indictments have been sent to court. 2) motions and complaints received by the investigating judges and not considered before the effective date of the Law of Ukraine “On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine Concerning the Commencement of the High Anti-Corruption Court” shall be submitted to the Court. 3) where the trial in the courts of first and appellate instances is not completed by the date of entry into force of the law, such criminal proceedings shall be referred to the High anti-Corrupt Court for consideration. 4) appeals against court decisions adopted before the day of Entry into force shall be carried out in accordance with the rules of jurisdiction provided for by this Code. Criminal proceedings for the crimes listed in clause “b” of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on international legal co-operation in connection with crimes related to the downing of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 on 17 July 2014, concluded on 7 July 2017 in the city of Tallinn. In the event of a change in the charges in court during the consideration of the case, such criminal proceedings shall continue to be considered by the High Anti-Corruption Court. Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine introduced lockdown in order to prevent spread of coronavirus disease in Ukraine (COVID-19) To establish features of judicial control over rights, freedoms and interests of persons in the criminal proceedings. Consideration of issues that fall within the powers of the investigating judge. The issue of transfer on the basis of paragraph 5 of this clause of the motion for selection or extension of a measure of restraint in the form of detention to another court shall be decided by the presiding judge of the respective appellate court. Jurisdictional disputes between courts shall not be allowed in this case. Consideration of issues related to the powers of the investigating judge or court may be conducted via video conference of which the parties to the criminal proceedings shall be duly notified. Recommend to the Prosecutor General’s Office of Ukraine to provide for the following within three months from the promulgation of this Code. creation and keeping of the Unified Register of Pre-Trial Investigations. equipping of the pre-trial investigation agencies with means of recording of criminal proceedings and technical means for remote proceedings using video conference mode. Replacement of the metal screen cages in the common court rooms, which separate defendants from the panel of judges and the public with glass or organic glass screens. Within one month from the day of promulgation of this Code, to ensure that its respective territorial departments submit to the respective local councils proposals concerning preparation and approval by such councils of the lists of jurors according to the Law of Ukraine “On Judicial System and Status of Judges”; 2) within three months from promulgation, to bring its regulatory acts in compliance with this Code. The city of Kyiv 13 April 2012 No. 4651-VI