This Law defines the legal, economic, and organisational framework for the formation of an integral system of priority directions of innovation activities and their implementation in Ukraine. The purpose of the Law is to provide an innovative model of economic development by concentrating state resources on scientific and technical production upgrades. The strategic priority directions shall be approved by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. Proposals on strategic priority directions, their forecast and analytical justification shall be prepared within the state targeted programmes for forecasting the scientific, technical and innovative development of Ukraine. These proposals will be prepared with the involvement of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, national specialised academies of sciences of Ukraine and higher education institutions and research institutes. Medium-term priority directions of the national level and their justification shall be formed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of innovations. The directions will be based on the results of forecast and analytical studies in science, technology and innovation activities, forecasts of economic and social development of Ukraine and aimed at ensuring innovative development. The amounts of funds allocated for the implementation of priority directions of the national and sectoral levels shall be determined annually by the Law “On the State Budget of Ukraine” The state shall introduce measures to: 1) develop innovation infrastructure (innovation centres, technology parks, science parks, technopolises, innovation business incubators, technology transfer centres, innovation clusters, venture capital funds, etc.) In Article 2, the words '“On Special Regime of Investment and Innovation Activity of Technological Parks”, of this Law and other legislative acts regulating public relations in this area” shall be replaced with “On Priority Directions of Innovation Activity in Ukraine”. In Article 7: paragraph 3 of Part 1 shall be amended to read as follows: “defines strategic priority directions of innovation activities;” the words “medium-term priority directions’ shall be added after the word “approve” in paragraph 2 of Part 2. “ shall prepare and submit proposals to the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the relevant councils on medium-term priority directions of innovation activities of the regional level” “Within six months after the effective date of this Law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law’”