This Law shall define the legal basis for the activities in the field of culture, regulate public relations associated with the creation, use, distribution, preservation of cultural heritage and cultural values. It also aims at ensuring access to them. The following definitions shall apply: “basic network of cultural institutions” is a complex of state and communal cultural enterprises, institutions, organisations. “Cultural space of Ukraine” is the field to carry out cultural activities and meet cultural, information and leisure needs of citizens. “artistic amateurism’ is the non-professional creative activities of individuals or groups that are not their main occupation and are not aimed at generating income; “national cultural property”  is a set of unique cultural values, objects of cultural heritage. “intangible cultural heritage” is customs, forms of display and expression, knowledge, skills that are passed down from generation to generation. “Creative activity’ is individual or collective creativity resulting in the creation or interpretation of works of cultural value. The term “cultural values” shall be used in the meaning given in the Law of Ukraine “On Export, Import and Return of Cultural Values”. The main principles of the state cultural policy shall include: recognition of culture as one of the main factors of the identity of the Ukrainian people. The legislation of Ukraine on culture shall aim to: ensure the implementation and advocacy of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens in the field of culture. The State shall create conditions for: development of the culture of the Ukrainian people, indigenous peoples, and national minorities of Ukraine; preservation, reproduction, and protection of the historical environment; aesthetic education of citizens, primarily of children and youth. Promotion of Ukrainian national culture in all its diversity abroad and world cultural property in Ukraine; support of domestic producers in the field of culture. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall annually approve the action programme of the central executive authority shaping the state policy in the fields of culture and arts for the development of culture. The Action Programme for the Development of Culture determines the strategic goals and priority tasks of the state cultural policy for a certain calendar year. The State shall guarantee freedom of creativity, free choice of activities in the field of culture. The right of a person to implement creative activity can be exercised both on a professional and amateur basis. Citizens shall have the right to access to cultural values by means of the use of documents of the National Archive Fund of Ukraine. The State shall create conditions for the cultural development of citizens of Ukraine of all nationalities. Citizens of any nationality shall have the right to preserve, develop, and promote their culture, language, traditions, customs and rituals. The main types of activities in the field of culture shall include the following: creation, performance, duplication, dissemination, demonstration. Article 13. Promotion of a common cultural space of Ukraine, preservation of cultural integrity. Article 14. Support for domestic producers in the field of culture, including creating a favourable tax regime and providing financial support by the State for the production and dissemination of books, films, and other cultural products. The Ukrainian Cultural Foundation shall independently determine the projects to be supported. Such projects may include, in particular, projects related to the organisation and holding of exhibitions, fairs, symposiums, congresses, etc. The removal of printed publications, source materials of films and phonograms, other artistic and literary works, documents, monuments from libraries, museums, archives and film funds shall be prohibited. The State shall create conditions for professional creative activity in the field of literature, theatre, music, choreography, circus, fine and decorative and applied arts, museum work, architecture, cinematography, journalism, information, design, research, restoration, and other activities aimed at the development of culture. Cultural institutions may simultaneously carry out other economic activities and receive proceeds from them, unless otherwise stipulated by law. The proceeds from these activities shall be taxed on a general basis in accordance with the legislation. Legal entities and individuals shall be guaranteed respect for their rights and legitimate interests when implementing investment and innovation activities at the cultural objects. Heads of state and communal cultural institutions shall be appointed by entering into a contract for a period of five years based on the results of a competition. The right to appoint, conclude a contract with heads of cultural institutions on the temporarily occupied territories and dismiss them shall be granted to: 1) Donetsk and Luhansk oblast state administrations, respective civil-military administrations (if established) and the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy. The head of a state or communal cultural institution may compete for the position of artistic director in the respective institution. A contract for a period of one to three years shall be concluded with the winner, in the form determined by the central executive authority shaping the state policy in the fields of culture and arts. Candidates for the position of head of a state or communal cultural institution shall be determined by a competition committee based on the results of an open and public competitive selection. The organisation and implementation of the competitive selection, as well as the work of the competition committee, shall be ensured by the governing body. The competition committee shall consist of nine members. Competition committee members must be impartial and independent. No interference in the activities of the competition committee by any authority or the competition participants shall be permitted. The competition committee shall be deemed competent if at least six members are approved. A person may not be a member of the committee if he/she: has been declared incapable or partially capable by a court judgment. All interested persons may take part in the competition for the position of head of a state or communal cultural institution. A person must submit the following documents within 30 days from the announcement of the competition. During the competition, personal data of the participants shall be processed in accordance with the Law of Ukraine “On Protection of Personal Data” The competitive selection shall be conducted publicly. Media and public representatives shall have the right to attend meetings of the competition committee when candidates are interviewed. The competition committee shall hold its first meeting 10 days after the deadline for the acceptance of documents. A person shall not be allowed to participate in the selection of candidates if he/she does not meet the requirements specified in Article 21-1 of this Law. The competition committee shall decide on the winner of the competition by means of voting. If all candidates are rejected by the competition committee, it shall hold repeated competition. The chairperson of the governing body shall be obliged to appoint the winner as the head of a state or communal cultural institution not later than two months after the competition is announced. The basic network of cultural institutions shall be formed by the executive and local authorities in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Existing cultural institutions and educational institutions in the field of culture shall be automatically included in the basic network. The status of a national institution (establishment) of Ukraine may be granted to several cultural institutions (establishments) depending on their number. The financial sources of cultural institutions shall include: funds of state and local budgets; funds from economic activity and the output of paid services. The fee for theOutput of Paid Services shall be set annually by the state and communal cultural institution in the national currency of Ukraine. The list of Paid services that may be provided by state and. communal cultural institutions may be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and approved by. the central executive authority shaping the state cultural policy. The State shall create a favourable tax regime for individuals and legal entities allocating their funds for the development of culture. The mechanism of tax promotion for supporting cultural activity shall be determined by the tax legislation of Ukraine. The remuneration of cultural workers and pedagogical workers in an educational institution in the field of culture shall consist of an official salary (tariff rate) Workers of state and communal cultural institutions, pedagogical workers of educational institutions in the field of culture who work in rural areas and urban-type settlements, as well as pensioners, shall have the right to free land property. The benefits for the free use of housing with heating and lighting shall be provided if the average monthly total family income calculated per person for the previous six months does not exceed the income that entitles to tax social benefit. The State shall commit to satisfy the national and cultural needs of Ukrainians residing outside Ukraine. The State shall promote cultural events abroad, the opening and activity of Ukrainian national cultural centres and national educational institutions in other countries. The cultural institutions, regardless of their subordination, form of ownership and organisational and legal form, professional creative workers, and citizens shall have the right to independently conclude agreements with foreign individuals and legal entities. 3. The following shall be declared invalid: Fundamentals of the Legislation of Ukraine on Culture (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 1992, No. 21, Art. 294 as subsequently amended) 4. The Resolution of the Rada. of Ukraine of 19 February 1992 “On the Procedure for Enactment of “Fundamentals. of the legislation of Ukraine. on Culture”