The Budget Code of Ukraine defines the legal basis for the functioning of the budget system of Ukraine. It also defines the responsibility for violations of budget legislation. The Code regulates relations arising in the process of preparation, consideration, approval, execution of budgets, reporting on their implementation. Budget purpose is the authority of the key spending unit, provided by this Code, the law on the State Budget of Ukraine (decision on the local budget), which has quantitative, time and target restrictions. Budget process is the process of preparation, consideration, approval, execution of budgets, reporting on their execution.  debt guaranteed by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional council or city territorial community is the total amount of debt obligations of business entities – residents of Ukraine. Public borrowing means operations related to the receipt of credits (loans) by the state in terms of repayment, payment and maturity to provide finance for the state budget. A single treasury account is an account opened to the central executive body implementing the state policy in the field of treasury servicing of budget funds. The term "single account" is used in this code in the sense given in the Tax Code of Ukraine. The Treasury of Ukraine consolidates the funds of state and local budgets, funds of compulsory state social and pension insurance, and funds of other clients. 32) inter-budget transfers mean funds transferred free of charge and irrevocably from one budget to another. 33) local borrowing – operations to obtain loans (borrowings) to the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional or city budget on terms of repayment, payment and maturity. 36) local financial body is an institution performing the functions of forecasting local budgets.  passport of the budget programme is a document defining the purpose, objectives, directions of use for budget funds. Payment is the fulfilment of budget, debt, guarantee or tax obligations. Decision on the local budget is a regulatory legal act of the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or relevant local council. Ukrainian government has a medium-term obligation under contracts for construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of roads. It also has an obligation to ensure the formation and implementation of state policy in the field of health care, in the areas of budget funds use. Ukraine has a long-term commitment in health care to make payments during the current budget period and/ormedium-term period. The budget period for all budgets making up the budget system of Ukraine is one calendar year, which begins on January 1 of each year and ends on December 31 of the same year. Failure of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine to adopt the law on the State Budget of Ukraine by January 1 is not a ground for establishing another budget period. Special circumstances under which the State budget of Ukraine may be approved for a budget period other than provided for in part 1 of this Article include: the imposition of martial law. The budget system of Ukraine consists of: 1) state budget; 2) local budgets: a) the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea; b) regional budgets; c) district budgets; d) local government budgets. Amendments to this Code may be made only by laws amending the Budget Code of Ukraine. The consolidated budget is a set of budget indicators used to analyze and forecast the economic and social development of the state. Consolidated budget of Ukraine includes indicators of the State Budget of Ukraine, the consolidated budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the consolidated budgets of regions, cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol. The budget system of Ukraine is based on the following principles: the principle of unity of the budget system. Budget is formed on realistic macro indicators of economic and social development of Ukraine. All participants in the budget process should strive to achieve the goals planned on the basis of the national system of values and tasks of innovative economic development. The budget system of Ukraine shall be based on the principles of fair and impartial distribution of social wealth. Tax revenues are recognised as established by the laws of Ukraine. Non-tax revenues include: income from property and business activities, administrative fees and charges, income from non-commercial economic activity. Transfers means funds received from other state authorities, authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local governments. The Treasury of Ukraine compiles and maintains a single register of budget managers and recipients of budget funds. Key spending units determine the network of lower-level budget managers. Budget expenditures are classified according to the economic characteristics of operations carried out during their implementation. Budget lending operations are divided into loans from the budget and repayment of loans to the budget. Special budget fund components are the following: 1) budget revenues (including own revenues of budgetary institutions), which have a target direction. 2) budget expenditures made at the expense of specifically determined revenues of the special budget fund. 3) the budget lending (return of credits to the budget with the definition of a targetdirection and granting of credits from the budget) 4) financing of the Special Budget Fund. Own receipts of budget institutions are used (subject to part nine of Article 51 of this Code) for: covering the costs associated with the services arrangement and provision provided by budgetary institutions in accordance with their main activities. The budget distribution into general and special funds, their constituent parts are determined exclusively by this Code and the law on the State Budget of Ukraine. Budget approval with a deficit is allowed in the presence of reasonable sources of budget funding. The budget surplus shall be approved for the purpose of repaying the debt. Planned and reporting indicators on budgetary reimbursement of value added tax, repayment of loans to the budget, debt repayment and placement of budget funds on deposits are displayed with a negative value. The current remaining budget balance is set at no more than 2 per cent of the planned expenditures of the general fund of the budget and approved in the law on the State Budget of Ukraine. Sources of budget funding are the following: funds from state (local) internal and external borrowings; funds from the privatisation of state property – in relation to the state budget. Public debt and state-guaranteed debt are managed by the central executive body implementing the state budget policy in the field of public debt. Activities of the Debt Agency of Ukraine are directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Accounting Chamber carries out state external financial control (audit) of the activities of the debt agency at least once every three years. In the event of a decrease in the amount of funds from state internal (external) borrowings compared to the amount specified by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine, due to deteriorating conditions of such borrowings and/or financial market conditions may increase the amount. Credits (loans) from foreign states, foreign financial institutions and international financial organisations for the investment projects implementation are attracted by the state based on the international agreements of Ukraine. A state-financed organisation/budget-funded entity shall not have the right to borrow. Expenditures for servicing and repayment of state (local) debt shall be carried out by the Debt Agency of Ukraine (local financial body) If the expected amount of expenditures exceeds the amount specified in the law on the State Budget of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine shall immediately inform the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Accounting Chamber. The Debt Agency of Ukraine may involve business entities to provide agency, consulting, rating and other services necessary for the management of public (local) debt. The head of the local financial body has the right to place on a competitive basis temporarily free local budgets on deposit or by purchasing securities issued by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The Debt Agency of Ukraine publishes the schedule of auctions for placing government debt securities on the domestic market. The strategy of public debt management for the medium term is formed taking into account the indicators defined by the Budget Declaration and the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. In order to effectively manage public debt in the financial market may be borrowed in excess of the amounts specified for the current budget period. State guarantees may be provided only within the limits and in the areas specified by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine. The procedure for selecting creditor banks, the conditions for providing state guarantees on a portfolio basis, the fee for providing such guarantees, as well as the amount and type of collateral provided by the relevant economic entities shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; international agreements of Ukraine – to ensure the fulfilment of debt obligations. State (local) guarantees are provided on terms of payment, maturity, as well as ensuring the fulfilment of obligations in the manner prescribed by law. A mandatory condition for the provision of a state guarantee on a portfolio basis is the payment by a business entity – a resident of Ukraine of a fee. State guarantees are not provided to secure the debt obligations of economic entities if the direct source of repayment of loans (loans) provides funds from the state (local) budget. The amount and type of property security of economic. entities in charge of state (municipal) property shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of. Ukraine in respect of state property. Overdue debt to the state (Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional council or city territorial community) on credits (loans) attracted under state (local) guarantees. If the agreement concluded with the business entity provides for the obligations of such entity to repay and service loans (borrowings) raised by the state, non-performance or improper performance of such obligations under the agreement entails the right to collect overdue debt in full. Tax authorities collect the entire amount of overdue debt on such a credit (loan) with subsequent transfer of the amount collected to the creditor in proportion to the unsecured part of the credit. If regional council or city territorial community is refused to collect debts to the state, the tax authorities appeal it in the manner prescribed by law. The Debt Agency of Ukraine pays for such services of economic entities at the expense of the state budget. Restructuring of debts of business entities to the state on loans (borrowings) involved by the state is prohibited. The amount of interest accrued as a result of default by the borrower of such obligations on the restructured amount of debt is written off. The procedure for writing off such debts is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The maximum amount of state (local) debt and guaranteed by the state is determined for each budget period by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine (decision on the local budget) The total amount of public debt and state-guaranteed debt at the end of the budget period may not exceed 60 per cent of the annual nominal volume of gross domestic product. The total amount of local debt and debt guaranteed by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional council or city territorial community as of the end of the budget period may not exceed 200 per cent (400 per cent for the city of Kyiv) of the average annual forecast revenue of the development budget. In case of expected exceeding of this limit value, the local financial body shall immediately apply to the Verkhovna Rada. The programme-target method is used in the budget process at the level of the state budget and at thelevel of local budgets. Special components of the programme- target method are budget programmes and responsible executors of budget programmes. Performance indicators of the budget programme are used to assess the effectiveness of thebudget programme in the use of budget funds. Evaluation of the budget programmes effectiveness is based on monitoring data, analysis of performance indicators for budget programmes. Results of the evaluation for the effectiveness of budget programmes are the basis for decisions to amend the budget allocations. If the budget programme implementation continues in subsequent budget periods, the procedure for using budget funds under such budget programme continues until the completion of its implementation. The key spending unit shall develop and approve the budget programme passport within 45 days from the date of entry into force of the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine (decision on the local budget). Rules of creation of passports of budget programmes and reports on their execution are established by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Budget managers are divided into key spending units and lower-level budget managers. Key spending units of budget funds may be only for budgetary purposes defined by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine. The main managers of local budgets shall be determined by the decision on the local budget in accordance with clauses 2 and 3, part two of this article. 1) develops a plan of activities for the medium term (including measures for the investment projects implementation) 2) organises and provides drafting of the budget and budget request and submits them to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. 3) receives budget assignments by approving them in the law on the State Budget of Ukraine (decision on the local budget) 4) approves the estimates of managers of the lower level budget funds. Budget assignments shall be established by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine (decision on the local budget) in accordance with the procedure established by this Code. Managers of budget funds have the right to make long-term obligations for energy service based on the essential terms of the energy service agreement approved by the central executive body. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine prepares proposals to reduce the relevant budget of the State Budget of Ukraine (local budget) Proposals to reduce budget assignments for the maintenance of courts, other bodies and institutions of the justice system shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the High Council of Justice. Expenditures of the special budget fund have a permanent budget purpose, which gives the right to spend them exclusively at the expense of actual revenues. Budget allocation is not terminated if it is used to perform the same functions, tasks or services by another key spending unit to whom it is entrusted. In the case of transfer of budget allocations for national expenditures and lending (except for intergovernmental transfers) increase expenditures on budget programmes related to the functioning of public authorities. It is prohibited to increase budget allocations for general and special funds of the state budget (local budget) without Making amendments to the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine (decision on the local budget) The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine sets the maximum amounts of expenditures of budgetary institutions for the purchase of cars, furniture, other equipment and facilities for administrative purposes. The amount of expenditures on medium-term obligations in the field of health care is separately determined by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine at the level of the relevant indicators of the Budget Declaration approved in the previous and/or current budget period. Ifa violation of the terms of development or implementation of the state investment project is established. submits proposals to the relevant key spending unit to reduce the budget allocations for utilities and energy by the balance of the difference between the actual and planned reduction of these costs. The reserve budget is formed for the implementation of contingencies which are not permanent and could not be foreseen during the draft budget. The decision on the need to create a reserve fund of the local budget is made by the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The reserve budget may not exceed one per cent of the expenditures in the general fund. At least 10 per cent of the funds of the state fund for regional development are provided for the implementation of investment programmes and regional development projects aimed at the development of regions in terms of sports infrastructure development. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional, Kyiv and Sevastopol city state administrations shall submit proposals. The state road fund is created as a part of special fund of the state budget. It is directed to: 1) financial support for construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of public roads of state importance; 2) fulfilment of debt obligations on borrowings received by the state or under state guarantees for the development of the network. The State Fund for Radioactive Waste Management is created as a part of the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. The list of objects of construction, reconstruction, capital and current average repair of public roads of state importance with indication of the amount of budget funds for financial support of such objects shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The State Fund for Water Management Development is created as a part of the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. The funds are directed on financial maintenance of actions on: 1) operation of the water management complex; 2) construction and reconstruction of melioration systems; 3) protection against the harmful effects of water for rural settlements and agricultural lands. The Accounting Chamber shall exercise control over the revenue to the State Budget of Ukraine and the use thereof. The activities of central executive bodies ensuring the implementation of state policy in the field of control over compliance with budget legislation are directed, coordinated and controlled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Managers of budget funds in the person of their heads organise internal control and internal audit. Internal audit is an activity aimed at improving the management system, internal control, prevention of illegal, inefficient and ineffective use of budget funds. The main principles of internal control and internal audit and the procedure for establishing internal audit units are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Budget information shall be made public in accordance with the requirements set out in this Code. The draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine shall be subject to obligatory publication in the newspaper "Governmental Courier" not later than seven days after its submission to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. Budget requests are posted by each key spending unit on its official website. The main managers of local budgets post budget requests on their official websites or publish them in another way no later than three working days after the submission of the draft decision on the local budget to the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Information on the execution of the state (local) budget shall contain indicators of the relevant budget for general and special funds. The main managers of budget funds are published by posting on their official websites. The main spending units provide public information on the implementation of budget programmes. Information on the objectives of state policy in the relevant field of activity, which formation and/or implementation is provided by the chief administrator, is also published. Revenues of the State Budget of Ukraine shall include budget revenues, except for those in accordance with Articles 64, 64-1, 66, 69-1 та 71 of this Code. The conditions and procedure for ensuring access to information on the use of state and local budgets are determined by the Law of Ukraine "On Open Use of Public Funds". 5-1: 95 per cent of the rent for the use of subsoil for the extraction of oil, natural gas and gas condensate. 5-2: 70 per cent for minerals of national importance (except for the rent specified in paragraph 5-1 of this part of the Article); 6-7: value added tax; 7-8: excise tax on excisable goods (products) produced in Ukraine. 9-10: import duty; 11-12: rent for transportation of oil and oil products. 19) payment for placement of temporarily free funds of the state budget. 20) funds received by foreign diplomatic missions of Ukraine as payment for the placement of budget funds due to them on current accounts of foreign banks. 21) payments related to the stay of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation on the territory of Ukraine. 24-4) fee for reduction of terms of services provision in the field of state registration of real property rights and their encumbrances. 25-2) payment for certification of the electricity transmission system operator, gas transmission system operators. 26) fees for preparation of copyright and agreements relating to the author's rights to the work for the state registration. 38) payment for the performance of customs formalities by the customs authorities outside the location of these bodies or outside the working hours established for them. 39) funds from the sale of property confiscated by a court decision, treasures which are monuments of history and culture, property received by the state according to inheritance procedure or as a gift. 41) deductions from the amount of funds spent on advertising of tobacco products. 52) concession payments for state-owned objects (except for concession payments specified in paragraph 6-5 of part three of this article); 53) funds from the sale of precious metals and precious stones, received by a state institution authorised to carry out operations with precious metals. 54) 80 per cent of the funds received by enterprises, institutions and organisations maintained at the expense of the state budget for gold, platinum, platinum group metals, precious stones. 5) tolls for vehicles and other self-propelled machines and mechanisms, which weight or dimensions exceed the normative. 6-5) concession payments paid in the case of construction and operation of public roads on the terms of the concession. 7) 30 per cent of monetary penalties for damage caused by violation of legislation on environmental protection. 8) funds received in accordance with Article 8 of the Law of Ukraine "On streamlining issues related to nuclear safety" 10) own revenues of budgetary institutions (including scientific institutions of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and branch academies of sciences) maintained at the expense of the state budget. 12-1) funds from the sale of surplus weapons, military and special equipment, military real estate by the intelligence agencies.  income from the sale of property rights to use films, source materials of films and film copies created at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine. 13-7) payment paid by the subject of cinematography for consideration of applications for state subsidies for the production (creation) of a film (game, animation, etc.), television film, television series. The sources of formation for the general fund of the State Budget of Ukraine in terms of lending are the following: receipts as a result of recovery of overdue debt to the state on credits (loans) attracted by the state or under state guarantees, credits from the state budget, unless otherwise provided by the law. 6-1) ensuring the functioning of state registers, which are held by the central executive body for the formation and implementation of state legal policy. 6-2) actions defined by part three, Article 24-3 of this Code (from sources defined by clause 7-4) 14) implementation of the State programme of providing youth with housing (at the expense of the sources specified in clause 2, part three of this article) 15-1) forest management and hunting, protection and preservation of forests in the forest fund. 16) formation by the Agrarian Fund of the state intervention fund. The state budget of Ukraine shall contain an explanation of all expenditures, except for expenditures related to state secrets. Secret expenditures provided for the activities of public authorities in the interests of national security shall be included in the State Budget of Ukraine without details. Control over secret expenditures shall be exercised by the Accounting Chamber and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Reports on secret expenditures will be considered by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine at a closed plenary session. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine conducts an overall assessment of fiscal risks and their impact on state budget indicators in the medium term. Information on fiscal risks is published on the official website after the submission of the draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. It provides the entities specified in clause 1, this part of the article with mandatory recommendations for consideration. The Budget Declaration is a document of medium-term budget planning. It defines the principles of budget policy and indicators of the state budget for the medium term. It is the basis for drafting the State Budget of Ukraine and local budget forecasts. In case of non-compliance, the requirements of parts two and three of this article shall inform the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take measures in accordance with the law. By March 1 of the year preceding the planned year – the approximate main forecast macro indicators of economic and social development of Ukraine for the medium term. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine based on analysis of budget execution in previous and current budget periods forecasts the state budget revenues. The High Council of Justice shall submit proposals on the priority tasks of financial support of the judiciary and its independence. The main managers of the state budget funds prepare proposals for the Budget Declaration. The Budget Declaration acquires the status of an official document and is formalised by a resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If no agreement is reached, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine shall attach the relevant information to the budget declaration. The Budget Declaration includes the main forecast macroeconomic and social development indicators of Ukraine. It also includes indicators of nominal and real gross domestic product, consumer price indices and producer prices, unemployment rate, assumptions about the hryvnia exchange rate against the US dollar on average for the year. The amount of state capital investments for the development and implementation of state investment projects for the medium term is determined by the Budget Declaration within the general limits of state budget expenditures and the provision of loans from the state budget. Public investment projects can be understood as projects implemented with state loans (loans) from foreign countries, foreign financial institutions and international financial organizations. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine shall develop and submit instructions on the budget requests preparation to the main administrators of budget funds. Instructions for budget request preparation may introduce financial restrictions, organisational and other requirements that must be met by all budget managers. Key spending units include in budget requests the number of long-term commitments for energy service. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine analyzes the budget request submitted by the chief administrator of budget funds for its compliance with the Budget Declaration. Based on the results of the analysis, the Minister of Finance decides to include the Budget request in the draft State Budget of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall submit this draft law before the approval of the draft law on the State Budget. The National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine on budget items related to national security and defence of Ukraine; The High Council of Justice on budget Items. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall approve the draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine and submit it together with the relevant materials to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. The key spending units shall ensure the clarification of budget requests taking into account the decisions taken by the Cabinet. The draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine includes: 1-1) substantiation of calculation for the value of the subsistence minimum for the relevant budget period per month per person, as well as separately for the main social and demographic groups of the population. 2-1): A list of benefits from taxes and fees with the calculation for losses of budget revenues from their provision. 3-1: Lists and amounts of funds under state target programmes, which are included by the main managers of state budget funds in the budget programmes provided for in the draft law. 4-1] a list of public investment projects indicating the total cost of each project, including the state budget expenditures required to complete them. 6-2) lists and amounts of medium-term liabilities in the field of health care under budgetary programmes. 7-1) a report on the implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine in the current budget period. 8-9) information on the purpose, objectives and performance indicators which each key spending unit intends to achieve. Consideration and approval of the State Budget of Ukraine shall take place in the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine according to a special procedure. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine must submit justifications and calculations on budget indicators of such law, changed compared to consideration in the first reading, to the President of Ukraine. The law on the State Budget of Ukraine has not entered into force before the beginning of the new budget period. The Cabinet of Ministers has the right to carry out expenditures of the State budget in accordance with the following requirements. If the law has not been introduced, the budget may only be spent on budget programmes, budget allocations for which are established. It is prohibited to make expenditures from the general fund of the state budget in terms of capital expenditures and loans from the budget. Capital expenditures related to the elimination of accidents at socio-cultural facilities, housing, heating, energy, gas, water supply and sewerage. The norms of the law on the State Budget of Ukraine for the previous budget period apply. Budget institutions open accounts in the bodies that provide treasury servicing of budget funds. Servicing by the Treasury of Ukraine of institutions of Ukraine operating abroad. State and municipal institutions of professional higher and higher education, scientific institutions and cultural institutions. Budget funds received as revenues from assistance programmes and grants of the European Union. The volume of temporary cash gaps in the general fund of such local budget is not covered by a single treasury account. Own revenues of state and municipal institutions of professional higher and higher education, research institutions and cultural institutions, received as payment for services provided by them in accordance with the main activity, charitable contributions and grants, are credited to special registration accounts opened in the territorial body of the Treasury Ukraine. The Treasury of Ukraine shall keep accounting records of all revenues of the State Budget of Ukraine. Bodies that control budget levy revenues collection shall ensure timely and full receipt of taxes and fees and other revenues to the state budget in accordance with the legislation. It is prohibited to make settlements with the budget in non-monetary form, including through offsetting. Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine determines the list of taxes, fees, and other budget revenues according to the budget classification. Payment of taxes and fees specified by law after registration shall be made at the place of preliminary registration before the end of the current budget period. Part of the profit to be distributed to the National Bank of Ukraine is determined. Budget managers shall make budget commitments and make payments only within the limits of the budget allocations established by the estimates. Long-term liabilities for energy service, taken into account by the Treasury of Ukraine; medium-term health commitments. Medium-term obligations under contracts for construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of roads; regarding the tasks ( projects) of the National Informatisation programme. Budget managers have the right to take appropriate budget commitments under budget programmes. Commitments made by a participant in the budget process without appropriate budget allocations or in excess of the powers established by this Code and the law on the State Budget of Ukraine (decision on the local budget) are not considered budget commitments. The manager of budget funds after receiving goods, works and services decides on their payment and issues a power of attorney to the payment of the Treasury of Ukraine. In the case of loans from the budget, borrowers have debts to the budget. Tax authorities are determined by the bodies for collection of overdue debts on loans from budget from business entities to the state. Expenses for gratuitous or preferential material and household provision, to which certain categories of employees of budgetary institutions, servicemen, persons of rank and file, police officers, employees of the Judicial Protection Service are entitled. Such costs include: provision of uniforms, belongings, uniforms; provision of free medical care; providing sanatorium treatment and recreation for recovery. Family members of the beneficiary include wife (husband), their minor children (under 18 years of age); unmarried adult children recognised as persons with disabilities from a childhood of groups I and II. A person living with and caring for a person with a disability as a result of the war is not married. Expenditures related to the operation of foreign diplomatic missions of Ukraine, including expenditures for the maintenance of their employees, shall be made exclusively through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. If there is no such debt, the manager of budget funds allocates 50 per cent of the funds for activities carried out at the expense of the relevant revenues. The funds are used for activities necessary to perform basic functions, but not provided by the general budget fund under the budget programme. In the case of the formation of state bodies in the current budget period, the provision of their activities in this period is carried out within the expenditures provided by state bodies. Amendments to the law on the State Budget of Ukraine may be made only by the laws on making amendments to the Law on the state budget of Ukraine. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine conducts a monthly assessment of the compliance of state budget revenues with the indicators established by the law. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine conducted a quarterly assessment for the Compliance of the main forecast macroeconomic indicators of Ukraine's economic and social development. Draft law on making amendments to the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine may be considered by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine only in the presence of an expert opinion of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Draft law provides for a change in the maximum amount of the state budget deficit, the maximum amounts of public debt and state-guaranteed debt. If there is a shortfall of the general fund of the State Budget of Ukraine by more than 15 per cent of the amount provided by the state budget, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine prepares proposals for amendments. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, having considered these proposals, submits to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine a draft law. Accounting of all operations related to the execution of the State Budget of Ukraine shall be carried out by the bodies of the Treasury of Ukraine. Appointment and dismissal of the chief accountant of a budgetary institution are carried out in accordance with labour legislation. All budget revenues and budget expenditures shall be reflected in the accounts chronologically. All accounting records shall be documented. Balances of state budget funds at the end of the budget period of Ukrainian institutions operating abroad are kept in such accounts for expenditures in the next budget period in accordance with estimates. The Treasury of Ukraine ensures the accuracy of information on the implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine. Report on the execution of the State Budget of Ukraine is operational, monthly, quarterly and annual. Report on budget debt is separately for the consolidated budget of Ukraine, the state budget and local budgets. Reports on the amounts of taxpayers overpaid monetary obligations and the amount of payments that are paid and will be accrued in subsequent reporting periods. The quarterly report on the implementation of the State Budget shall be submitted by the Treasury of Ukraine no later than 35 days after the end of the reporting quarter. The bodies that control budget levy revenues collection shall submit to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Annual report on the implementation of the law on the State Budget of Ukraine. Report must be submitted by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine and the Accounting Chamber no later than 1 April of the year following the reporting year. The Accounting Chamber prepares and submits to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine conclusions on the implementation of the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. The preparation of such materials is carried out by the central executive body, which ensures the formation of state policy in the field of economic and social development. The local budget contains revenues and expenditures for the exercise of powers of the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administrations and local governments in accordance with this Code. Consideration in the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine of the annual report on the implementation of the law on the State Budget of Ukraine shall be carried out according to a special procedure. Rents for the use of subsoil for the extraction of oil, natural gas, gas condensate and amber. State duty, which is credited to the budgets of local self-government at the place of action and issuance of documents. 13.44 per cent of the excise tax on fuel produced in Ukraine in the manner prescribed by Cabinet of Ministers. 13.44 per cent of the excise tax on fuel imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, are credited to the general fund of the relevant local government budgets automatically. In the first half of the current budget period – in proportion to the volume of fuel sold by retail trade entities in the relevant territory. 24) fee for licenses for the right of wholesale trade in ethyl alcohol, rectified grape and rectified fruit ethylalcohol. 26) fee. for state registration (except for the administrative fee for state. registration of legal entities, natural persons – entrepreneurs and public formations), which is credited to the city budgets of Kyiv and Sevastopol by licensees at the place of activity. 27-1) payment for. licenses for fuel production and retail trade. 33) funds from the sale of ownerless property (including that refused by the owner or recipient), finds, inherited property. 34) concession payments for communal property objects, the founder of which are village, settlement, city councils. 35) part of the net profit (income) of communal unitary enterprises and their associations. 36) payment for the provision of other administrative services, which is paid at the place of services provision. 39) penalties due to non-fulfilment of agreements concluded by the budget manager with business entities for the purchase of goods, works and services. 40) funds received from the participants of the procurement procedure/simplified procurement as security for their tender offer/proposal of the simplified procurement participant, which are not refundable to such participants. 2) payment for licenses for certain types of economic activity and certificates issued by district state administrations. 3) income from rent for the use of the property complex and other property in municipal ownership, the founder of which are district councils. 4) rent for water bodies (their parts), which are provided for use on lease terms. 5) concession payments for municipal property. Revenues of the general fund of the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and regional budgets include: 15 per cent of personal income tax (except for the tax specified in clause 1-1, part two, Article 29 of this Code), which is paid (transferred) in accordance with the Tax Code of Ukraine in the relevant territory. Income tax on enterprises and financial institutions of municipal property. 5) payment for the use of other natural resources, which is credited to the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and regional budgets. 6) excise tax on excisable goods (products) produced in Ukraine, paid by taxpayers registered in Ukraine. 15) rent for water bodies (parts thereof) provided for use on lease by the Council of Ministers. 23) fee for state registration (except for the administrative fee for the state registration of legal entities, natural persons – entrepreneurs and public formations), which is credited to the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and regional budgets. 24) fees for licenses for the right of wholesale trade in alcoholic beverages, tobacco products and liquids used in electronic cigarettes. 25-1) payment for. licenses for fuel production, for right to wholesale fuel, for the. right to retail fuel, and for the the right to store fuel. 26) administrative fines imposed by local executive bodies. Revenues and expenditures of the budget of the city of Kyiv shall be formed in accordance with the procedure established by this Code. Revenues of the general fund of local budgets include revenues specified in Articles 64, 64-1 and 66 of this Code and transfers from other budgets. The taxes and fees paid by enterprises operating in the exclusion zone and in the zone of unconditional (compulsory) resettlement shall be credited. Revenues specified in parts two and three, Article 29 of this Code and paid (transferred) in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol shall be credited in full to the budget of Crimea. Refund of erroneously and/or overpaid monetary obligations from taxes and fees and budget reimbursement of value added tax to taxpayers registered in the Aut autonomous republic and city of Sevastopol. In case of termination of activity of local governments of Donetsk and Luhansk regions, their functions concerning budgetary powers are carried out by local state administrations and executive bodies of city councils. The composition of revenues and expenses of budgets of districts in cities is defined by city council according to the powers transferred to district councils in cities. Revenues of the development budget in local budgets include: dividends (income) accrued on shares (stakes) of business companies, which authorised capital includes property of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, municipal property. Revenues within the framework of assistance programmes and grants of the European Union, governments of foreign states and international organisations. 10 per cent of the funds from the use (sale) of the part of the manufactured products remaining in the ownership of the state. 5 per cent – to the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or regional budget; 5% – to relevant local government budget. If the subsoil area is located on the territory of several administrative-territorial units, funds between the relevant local budgets are distributed within the established ratio. The budget for the development of local budgets is an integral part of the special fund ofLocal budgets. Capital expenditures of the development budget are directed to socio-economic development of regions investment projects. The local budget may be approved with a deficit for the general fund in the case of using the free balance of budget funds. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administrations, executive bodies of the relevant local councils may receive loans to cover temporary cash gaps in local budgets. The local budget may be approved with a deficit on the special fund in case of attraction to the development budget of funds from local borrowings. The scope and conditions of local borrowing and the provision of local guarantees shall be agreed with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. The state is not liable for the debt obligations of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional councils and territorial communities. Expenditures on local debt service shall be made at the expense of the general fund of the local budget. The Verkhovna Rada Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the relevant regional and city councils have no right to make new local borrowings and provide local guarantees for the next three years. The payment schedule is violated in the process of making payments on repayment and servicing of local debt and guaranteed local debt stipulated by the agreement between the creditor and the borrower. Local financial authorities analyze the budget request submitted by the chief administrator of budget funds. Rural, settlement and city territorial communities may pool budget funds on a contractual basis. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine shall provide information to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administrations, executive bodies of relevant local councils. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional state administrations shall prove to the executive bodies of village, settlement, city councils the appropriate amounts of subventions for state social protection programmes. Indicators of the local budget forecast are determined taking into account the provisions and indicators defined for the relevant budget periods. Local financial body determines local budget funding, repayment of loans to the local budget. Based on main forecast macroeconomic and social development of Ukraine. Analysis of local budget execution in previous and current budget periods forecasts local budget revenues. Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administrations, executive bodies of relevant local councils. The draft decision on the local budget shall be approved by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administration or executive body of the relevant local council. The following is provided along with it: an explanatory note to the draft decision, which shall contain information on the socio-economic condition of relevant administrative-territorial unit. The local budget determines: 1) total amounts of revenues, expenditures and lending to the local budget (divided into general and special funds); 2) the maximum amount of annual deficit (surplus) of theLocal budget in the next budget period; 3) local debt and debt guaranteed by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional council or city territorial community. Local budgets shall be approved by a decision of the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the relevant local council by December 25 (inclusive) of the year preceding the planned year. In the decision on the local budget, expenditures and crediting by the key spending units shall be detailed. Local financial authorities carry out the general arrangement and management for the implementation of the relevant local budget. Treasury servicing of local budgets is carried out by the bodies of the Treasury of Ukraine in accordance with Article 43 of this Code. Local budget is executed according to the schedule approved by the head of the local financial body. Bodies that control budget levy revenues collection ensure timely and full receipt of taxes and fees and other revenues of local budgets. Local budgets implementation by expenditures and crediting shall be carried out in accordance with Articles 46-51 of this Code. Decisions on amendments to the decision on the local budget may be made by the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Public authorities are prohibited from making decisions leading to additional expenditures of local budgets without determining the sources of funds allocated by the state to ensure these expenditures. It is prohibited to make capital expenditures and provide loans from the budget. The monthly budget allocations of the local budget may not exceed 1/12 of the budget allocations established by the decision on theLocal budget for the previous budget period. The Treasury of Ukraine shall compile and submit to the relevant local financial authorities reports on the implementation of local budgets in the prescribed forms. Quarterly and annual reports on local budget execution shall be submitted to the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The purpose of regulating inter-budgetary relations is to ensure compliance of the powers to implement expenditures fixed by law. State may transfer to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or local governments the right to incur expenditures. State may transfer only subject to the appropriate transfer of financial resources in the form of national taxes and fees or their shares, as well as transfers from the State Budget of Ukraine. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administrations, executive bodies of relevant local councils shall ensure the implementation of expenditures specified in clauses 2 and 3, part one, Article 82 of this Code. It is prohibited to plan and implement expenditures not referred to local budgets by this Code, as well as to make expenditures for the maintenance of budgetary institutions.  Expenditures made from the State Budget of Ukraine include expenditures on: public administration, judiciary, international activities, scientific and scientific-technical activities and national defence. Expenditures of the first group are made from local government budgets. Expenditure of the second group is made from budgets of local government, as well as regional budgets. Primary health care, outpatient and inpatient care (multidisciplinary hospitals and clinics that perform specific national functions, according to the list approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine); b) specialised, highly specialised outpatient and Inpatient care. c) higher education (for the payment of training services, scientific and scientific-pedagogical staff on the terms of the state order in higher education institutions of state and private property, the cost of educational services which is set taking into account the legislation on indicative cost) and professional higher education; d) postgraduate education. e) out-of-school education institutions and out- of-school activities with children. f) public programmes of public health and measures to combat epidemics. Pensions to servicemen of the private, sergeant and non-commissioned officer of conscript service and members of their families. State social assistance for the care of persons specified in clauses 1-3, part one, Article 7 of the Law of Ukraine "On State Social Assistance to Persons Not have the right to a pension and persons with disabilities" State rehabilitation institutions for persons with disabilities, children with disabilities belonging to the sphere of management of the central executive body. Compensation of the deficit of the Pension Fund of Ukraine to finance the payment of pensions in the solidarity system. Benefits for housing and communal services, purchase of solid and liquid stove fuel, liquefied gas to certain categories of citizens. State social assistance to families with children, low-income families, persons with disabilities from childhood, children with disabilities, temporary state assistance to children. State social assistance for orphans and children deprived of parental care in family orphanages type and foster families. State support of cinematography; e) state archives and insurance fund of documentation. State programmes for the development of physical culture and sports. Financial support of Olympic training bases and all-Ukrainian public associations. State programmes to support regional development and priority sectors of the economy. Expenditures made from the budgets of rural, settlement, urban territorial communities include expenditures on education. Orphanages, educational and rehabilitation centers (if at least 70 per cent of the number of students in orphanages falls on the territory of the relevant territorial community) inclusive resource centers. institutions of specialised education: art, sports, military (naval, military-sports), scientific lyceums. professional higher education (to pay for training services on the terms of a regional order) out-of-school education. Social protection and social security: shelters for children, centers for social and psychological rehabilitation of children and social dormitories for orphans and children deprived of parental care. Local programmes of providing medical services to the population in excess of the amount provided by the state guarantees programme of medical care; f) local public health programmes. A) general secondary education: special schools, sanatorium schools, lyceums (founded by the regional council); orphanages, training and rehabilitation centers. b) vocational (vocational) education (for the payment of training services on the terms of a regional order); c) higher education (to pay for professional development and retraining services); d) out-of-school education (activities and institutions of the national, state, republican Autonomous Republic of Crimea and regional significance in extracurricular work with children); e) other state educational programmes. Specialised hospitals, clinics, centers, dispensaries, hospitals for war veterans, orphanages, blood transfusion stations, sanatorium-and-spa care. Other state programmes of medical and sanitary care (medical and social expert commissions, forensic bureaus, medical statistics centers, territorial medical associations, sanitary transport enterprises) Culture and art: a) state cultural and educational programmes (national, state, republican of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and regional reserves, libraries, museums and exhibitions, including institutions and establishments of communal property, which obtained the status of national); b) state theatre and entertainment programmes (philharmonics, artistic, musical groups and ensembles, theatres, concert and circus organisations, palaces, houses of culture, other institutions and events in the field of art); c) other state artistic and artistic programmes. Physical culture and sports: programmes for the development of physical culture, sports and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. 7) programmes of nature protection measures of local significance, projects of restructuring and liquidation of objects of enterprises of mining chemistry. Expenditures of local budgets that can be made from all local budgets include expenditures on: fire protection, public order protection, local governments, social protection and social security. Local programmes of local significance for children, youth, women, families, including for supporting activities of youth centers. 13) programmes of nature protection measures of local significance. 14) municipal property management; 15) regulation of land relations. 16) measures in the field of protection of the population and territories from emergencies of man-caused and natural nature within the powers established by law. 17) measures and works on territorial defence and mobilisation training. Law of Ukraine "On the status of war veterans, guarantees of their social protection" Article 93. Transfer of funds between local budgets for the implementation of local budget expenditures. Article 94. Local programmes supporting automobile enterprises of sanitary transport; 21. Other programmes related to the exercising their powers, approved by the Verkhovna Rada. A local council may transfer funds for the implementation of certain expenditures of local budgets to another local council. The transfer of funds between local budgets is carried out based on the decisions of the relevant local councils. The procedure and conditions for providing subventions from the state budget to local budgets shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The distribution of additional subsidies between local budgets is carried out based on the criteria defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The State Budget of Ukraine shall approve the amount of inter-budget transfers separately for each of the relevant local budgets. The value of the tax capacity index for the relevant regional budget is taken into account. The tax capacity index is a coefficient determining the level of taxability of the local self-government budget. When implementing equalisation, the value of the taxcapacity index for the relevant budget is taken into account. The Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local councils may include the following types of intergovernmental transfers in relevant budgets. Subvention from the state budget to local budgets for financial support related to the construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of highways of local significance, streets and roads in municipal property within settlements. 90 per cent of the total subventions are distributed among the corresponding local budgets (except for the budget of Kyiv), depending on length of general use highways. Education subvention is aimed at remuneration for pedagogical workers in the following types of educational institutions: elementary schools, gymnasium (except for preschool units in these institutions), lyceum. Subvention from the state budget to local budgets for financial support for the construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of general use highways of local importance. The subvention is aimed at providing state support to educate children with blind and reduced vision, deaf and reduced hearing, with severe speech disorders. The balance of funds on an educational subvention at the end of the budget period are stored on the accounts of relevant local budgets and are used in the next budget period. Individuals with special educational needs are educated in the inclusive and special classes (groups) of preschool and general secondary education institutions. The volumes of the specified subvention are approved separately for the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional budgets, budgets of cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol. Distribution of subventions for providing state support to persons withspecial educational needs is carried out between local budgets. The Law on the State Budget of Ukraine approves the scope of medical subvention separately for the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional budgets and district budgets. The medical subventions are distributed between the relevant budgets based on the formula, which is developed by the central executive body ensuring the formation and implementation of state health policy. The distribution of additional subsidies for the transfer of deposits from the state budget for the maintenance of educational and healthcare institutions is carried out in the following proportions: 10 per cent of the amount – in proportion to the share in the number of existing population in the region as of 1 January of the year preceding the planned. The reduced relative taxability index is a coefficient defined as the sum of the average tax capacity index of the regional budgets, which value is equal to 1. Providing subventions to implement investment projects is based on the principle of objectivity and openness. Subventions for investment projects are provided from the state budget to local budgets, taking into account such basic principles as economic efficiency and targeted use of funds. The subvention is used exclusively to the purpose defined by its provider. Intergovernmental transfers from the state budget to local budgets are carried out from state budget accounts by the Treasury of Ukraine to the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional budgets, budgets of Kyiv and Sevastopol. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may distribute and redistribute the amount of subventions and additional subsidies between local budgets within the total amount of relevant subventions. The local state administration may decide on the distribution and redistribution of transfers from the state budget to local budgets. The powers of the Committee of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on Budget include: 1) preparation of the Budget Declaration issue and preliminary consideration of the draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine. The Accounting Chamber includes control over the receipt and use of funds of the State Budget of Ukraine. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine monitors compliance with budget legislation at each stage of the budget process for both the state budget and local budgets. The Accounting Chamber shall submit conclusions on the state of implementation of the law on the State budget of Ukraine to the Verkhovna Rada. Powers of the Treasury of Ukraine to monitor compliance with budget legislation. Control over: keeping records of all revenues and expenditures of the state budget and local budgets, financial and budgetary reports preparation and submission. 3. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and local financial authorities receive explanations, materials and information on issues arising during the compilation, consideration and approval of budgets. Powers of the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and relevant local councils to monitor compliance with budget legislation. The central executive body implementing the state policy in the field of state financial control shall submit monthly to the Rada and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. 5) violation of the established procedure or deadlines for submission of the draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine (draft decision on the local budget) for consideration by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. 5-7) making a decision on local budget in violation of requirements in this Code or the law on State Budget. 8) approval of the state budget (local budget) with a deficit or surplus. 18) violation of the procedure and terms for opening (closing) accounts in the bodies of the Treasury of Ukraine. 19) making commitments without appropriate budget allocations or in excess of the powers established by this Code or the law on the State Budget of Ukraine; 20) making payments at the expense of budget funds. The following measures of influence may be applied to participants in the budget process for violation of budget legislation. The measures include suspension of operations with budget funds, reduction of budget allocations, and warning about improper implementation of budget laws. Identified violations of budget law shall be eliminated within 30 calendar days. A warning on improper implementation of budget legislation may be applied by participants in the budget process. Improper use of budget funds is their spending for purposes not meeting the budget purpose established by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine (decision on the local budget) The decision enters into force from the date of its signing. The form and procedure for drawing up a report on violations of Budget legislation shall be established by Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Budget legislation includes directions of use for budget funds, specified in the passport of the budget programme or under the procedure for using budget funds. Officials due to whose fault the budget legislation has been violated shall bear civil, disciplinary, administrative or criminal liability in accordance with the law. Violation of budget legislation committed by the administrator or recipient of budget funds may be grounds for prosecution. In case of violation of the requirements for budgeting, the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the head of regional, Kyiv and Sevastopol city state administrations shall be granted the right to apply to the court with a simultaneous request for immediate suspension of the decision. The heads of the bodies of the Treasury of Ukraine shall bear personal responsibility. This Code shall enter into force on 1 January 2011, except for: clause 20-1, part 1 of Article 87 and clause 5, part two, Article 61. If the court finds a decision to apply a measure of influence for violation of budget legislation completely or partially illegal to the person in respect of whom it was issued, the rights limited by such a decision shall be restored. The decision of the court may be appealed in the manner prescribed by law. From 1 July 2018 to 1 January 2020, the budgets of administrative-territorial units which public health facilities have not concluded contracts for medical care under the programme of state guarantees of medical care for primary health care, a medical subvention is provided in the manner prescribed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as an exception to the provisions of sub-clause "f" 2. Recognise as invalid the Budget Code of Ukraine. The debt of Ukraine to the International Monetary Fund belongs to the state debt. The provision of state guarantees is carried out exclusively within the limits and in the areas defined by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine exercises the powers and functions of managing public debt and state-guaranteed debt until the Debt Agency of Ukraine becomes operational. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has the right to set the amount of social benefits, not determined by law, in absolute amounts within the budget allocations established by the relevant budget programmes. The Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city council is obliged to take measures to bring the debt in accordance with Code for the next three budget periods. The court decision on recovery (seizure) of state budget (local budgets) funds is executed exclusively by the Treasury of Ukraine. These decisions are transferred for execution to the Treasury. Repayment of such budget commitments shall be made exclusively at the expense of the budget allocations of this budget manager. 5) write-off of funds from the budget by a court decision to return to the taxpayer overpaid and/or erroneously paid taxes and fees and other budget revenues. 6) return by court decision of the value of property confiscated or turned into state revenue by the court is carried out in the amount of funds received by the budget from the sale of this property. 7) return of confiscated (excluded) national and foreign currency. Officials and public officials of state authorities bear civil, administrative and criminal liability in accordance with the law. Only such a person can be subject to physical and legal entities for compensation of lost property gain and non-pecuniary damage in the prescribed manner. Public authorities (authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local governments) conduct an official investigation into the official persons. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall ensure by 1 March 2020: conducting an inventory of all regulations governing the application of sectoral standards in the implementation of local budget expenditures. If the damage caused to the state budget (local budget) is the result of joint actions or inaction of several officials and public officials who caused damage to individuals or legal entities, such officials are jointly and severally liable. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall establish a list of quasi-fiscal operations and authorities responsible for assessing the possible impact of such operations on budget indicators by 1 January 2013. The funds of the compulsory state social and pension insurance funds are serviced by the bodies of the Treasury of Ukraine in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet. The norms of this Code are applied in a special manner for the period of the Law of Ukraine "On Ensuring the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Temporarily Occupied Territory of Ukraine" The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may determine the use of budget funds for support programmes of television and radio companies operating in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol. Collection in the form of a target surcharge to the current tariff for electricity and heat, except for electricity produced by qualified co-generation units. Environmental tax for air emissions of pollutants from mobile sources of pollution from: – trade in the customs territory of Ukraine with fuel of own production or produced from toll raw materials. Tax debt and return of erroneously or overpaid amounts until 31 December 2017 from the rent for the use of subsoil for the extraction of natural gas, oil and gas condensate are credited (carried out) to/from the state budget. It shall further be established that the programme-target method in the budget process at the level of local budgets, which have a relationship with the state Budget, is used. The procedure and conditions for granting a stabilisation subsidy are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The expenditures specified in sub-clause "e", clause 2, part one, Article 89 of this Code may be carried out from regional budgets in terms of staff training on the terms of a regional order for the needs of the entire region. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may make decisions: in agreement with the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on reducing expenditures and lending to the state budget. Inter-budgetary relations are regulated in accordance with the law on the State Budget of Ukraine for the relevant period based on the principles ensuring the implementation by public authorities. The balances of local budgets of such settlements are credited to the special fund of relevant regional budgets of Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Balances of funds are transferred by the bodies of the Treasury of Ukraine and are reflected by them in accounting and reporting on the local budgets implementation. Lists of facilities and activities that will be carried out at the expense of these balances are approved by the relevant regional state administrations, regional military-civil administrations. Starting from 1 January 2017, the balances of local budgets of such settlements are credited to the special fund of the respective regional budgets of Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Balances are transferred by the Treasury of Ukraine on a monthly basis (by the 10th day of the month following the reporting month), reflected by them in accounting and reporting. Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts return under the control of the state authorities. The population additionally takes into account the number of registered internally displaced persons. Control over the use of budget funds for own revenues of state and municipal institutions of special professional and higher education, research institutions and cultural institutions. The rules and regulations of Article 81 of the Law of Ukraine "On the Prosecutor's Office" of 14 October 2014 No. 1697-VІІ ammended in the manner and amounts established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It shall further be established that provisions of Articles 20, 21, 22, 23, 30, 31, 37, 39, 48, 50, 51, 52 and 54 of the law of Ukraine" are applied. State registration of such encumbrances on movable property and change of information about them is carried out in the manner prescribed by law, at the request of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. It shall further be established that the provision on decisions of the Authorized Body on State Aid, defined in part four, Article 35, applies from the formation of the draft State Budget of Ukraine for 2019. Payment obligations of the state on state external borrowings and state-guaranteed debt or on local debt in the case of a city territorial community. If any existing or future payment obligation of the. state on the state external borrowing, the state guarantee or the city territorial. community on the local borrowing provides a condition that the payment. obligations have the same priority as other unsecured and non-subordinated payment obligations of. the state. The right to place government derivatives belongs to the state in the person of the Head of the Debt Agency of Ukraine in agreement with the Minister of Finance of Ukraine. The terms for placement of government derivatives and transactions with government derivatives are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Expenditures on payments on government derivatives, as well as expenses related to Transactions with Government Derivatives, are made by the debt agency in accordance with terms of placement. If no decision on the local budget for 2021 is made by 31 December 2020, the executive body of the local council, the district state administration has the right to spend local budget only for the purposes specified in the draft decision. At the same time, the monthly budget allocations of theLocal Budget may not exceed 1/12 of the budget expenditures provided for in the Draft Decision on the Local Budget for 2021. Reimbursement (transfer) of overpaid amounts of personal income tax, which are credited to the district budget before 1 January 2021 and are subject to refund to an individual based on tax return for 2020 based on the recalculation of its total annual taxable income, is carried out by the Treasury of Ukraine from the budget of the formed territorial community. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has the right to receive free information containing bank secrecy, personal data, and access to automated information and reference systems, registers and data banks. It does not require the consent of individuals. The processing and protection of personal data is carried out in compliance with the legislation on personal data protection and in the manner prescribed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In 2018 and 2019, 13.44 per cent of excise tax on fuel produced in Ukraine is credited to the general fund of local government budgets automatically. In 2020, as an exception to the provisions of clauses 1 and 2, part three, Article 29 of this Code, 13% of exciseTax on fuel imported into the customs territory of Ukraine is also credited. It shall be established that in 2017 in order to implement measures to introduce medium-term budget planning, as an exception to the provisions of paragraph 9, part 1 of Article 21, parts 1 and 3, Article 33 of this Code. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall submit a draft of the Main Directions of Budget Policy for 2018-2020 to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine no later than 15 June 2017. The amount of state budget expenditures on higher education is distributed among higher education institutions based on the formula developed by the central executive body. The funds received by institutions and organizations under the auspices of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine for gold, silver, platinum, platinum group metals, precious stones handed over in the form of scrap and waste are subject to direction to the State budget of Ukraine. The measures of influence established by clause 2, part one, Article 117 of this Code, for violations of budget legislation committed in 2017-2018 do not apply to participants in the budget process due to the introduction as of 1 January 2017 of national regulations. The local budget forecast for 2021 and 2022 is submitted to the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. It shall further be established that 60 per cent of the special fund in 2021 as an exception to the provisions of paragraph 21 of part four of Article 30 of this Code, shall be directed to the Ministry of Infrastructure ensuring the renewal of rolling stock for the carriage of passengers by rail.