This Law establishes the organisational and legal framework of the interaction between public partners and private partners. It establishes the basic principles of public and private partnership on a contractual basis. It defines the characteristics of public-private partnership determined by this Law. It also defines the operational readiness fee paid to a private partner under the terms of the partnership. A private partner in the agreement concluded under the public-private partnership may be represented by several persons, who may act as private partners in compliance with this Law. The relationship between private partners and the procedure for identification of a private partner to represent the interests of other private partners are determined by the terms of the agreement. The Constitution of Ukraine, the Civil Code of Ukraine and other legal acts of Ukraine form the legal framework for public-private partnership. Features of the public- private partnership include: creation and/or construction, reconstruction, restoration, major repairs, and technical re-equipment. All investment projects that meet the criteria shall be implemented in accordance with this Law. The public-private partnership shall be applied in the following spheres: production, transportation, and supply of heat, as well as distribution of natural gas. The partnership may be used in other spheres of activity, which provide socially relevant services, except for economic activities that are allowed to be carried out exclusively by state enterprises, institutions, and organisations. This Law shall regulate relations associated with the initiation of public-private partnership, selection of a private partner, preparation for conclusion, determination of the content of the agreement. It does not apply to production-sharing agreements, which procedure for conclusion is regulated by the Law of Ukraine "On Product-Sharing Agreements" A private partner may transfer all or part of its property rights arising from the agreement concluded under the public-private partnership to a third party for a period not exceeding the term of such an agreement. If approved by the public partner, property rights may be the subject of a pledge, unless otherwise established by the agreement. Immovable property newly built by a private partner shall be an object of state or communal property. The location of property rights arising from the agreement concluded under the public-private partnership is the state of Ukraine. A private partner is the owner of movable property acquired by them for the execution of the agreement. An agreement under this law may provide for the emergence of joint partial ownership of a public and a private partner for the created (newly built) objects. In case of termination (cancellation) of the agreement concluded under the public-private partnership, the private partner automatically loses the right to use the land parcel provided to it by the public partner. The public partner shall approve the land use documents with relevant public authorities or local authorities as legally appropriate. Proposals on the implementation of the public-private partnership shall be prepared by the central, local executive authorities, local authorities, or bodies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Proposals for the implementation shall consist of a technical and economic rationale. The content of the rationale is determined by the Procedure for analysing the effectiveness of the implementation, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A decision shall be made on the expediency or inexpediency of preparation of the technical andEconomic rationale. Central, local executive authorities, local authorities, authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, may start preparing a proposal for the public-private partnership implementation. This ground for refusal may not be used if more than one year has passed since the decision on the expediency of preparing the technical and economic rationale. Analysis of the public-private partnership implementation efficiency shall be carried out based on the proposal. It will take into account social, economic, and ecological consequences of the project. Environmental impact assessment for planned activities provided for in the proposal will be done by a private partner after signing an agreement. The analysis will be performed in relation to the objects owned by the state, communal sector, or local authority. The conclusion based on the results of the analysis of the public-private partnership implementation efficiency may contain a list of measures to be taken before the announcement of the tender to determine a private partner. The conclusion is subject to coordination with the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of public- private partnership. Decisions on the public-private partnership implementation or on inexpediency thereof shall be made in respect of the following objects: owned by the state – by the central executive authority that performs, in accordance with the law, functions for the management of relevant public property objects. Owned by the communal sector – by a local authority authorised according to the Law of Ukraine On Local Self-Government. A private partner for concluding the agreement under the public-private partnership shall be selected on a competitive basis. The measures provided for in Part 2 of this Article shall be implemented within a period not exceeding six months from the date of the decision on the expediency of private partnership. Tender application deadlines; period for conducting the tender for selection of the private partner; main qualification requirements to the bidders; main criteria for selecting the winner. If the legislation of Ukraine that regulates relations arising under conclusion and implementation of the agreements specified by Part 1, Article 5 of this Law shall be applicable. The public partner shall conclude an agreement under the public-private partnership with the winner of the tender on the terms established by the tender for selection of the private partner. Other civil law agreements, including a financing agreement or a direct agreement, may be concluded for the performance of the agreement. An agreement entered into by the parties may be amended or terminated by agreement of the parties or at the request of one of them. The grounds, procedure, and conditions for changing the private partner are determined by a direct agreement. A direct agreement shall be concluded between a public partner, a private partner, and a creditor (creditors) no later than 180 working days from the moment of concluding the agreement under the public-private partnership. Public-private partnership agreement will be implemented by state, utility enterprises, institutions, organisations and/or business associations. 100 percent of shares (stakes) of which are owned by the state, local community, or the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, of related infrastructure objects. Decision on providing public support will be made by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or authorised executive authorities, local authorities, or Council of Ministers. The state shall guarantee the observance of terms and conditions specified by the law of Ukraine for private partners activities. At the request of a private partner or creditor, the state shall have the right to waive immunity in the agreement concluded under the public-private partnership. The waiver shall apply to all court decisions, international commercial arbitration awards, preliminary injunction awards, as well as enforcement of court and arbitration awards. Rights and obligations of the parties specified by the agreement concluded under public-private partnership for the period of its validity shall be regulated by the laws of Ukraine. If public or local authorities make decisions that violate rights of private partners, the losses incurred by the private partners in connection with such decisions shall be fully compensated. Private partners shall be entitled for recovery of losses, resulting from the activities, inactivity, or poor performance of the public authorities, local authorities, or their officials. The public partner, other public authorities, local authorities, and their officials shall perform control over implementation of the agreements concluded under the public-private partnership. Interference in the economic activity of the private partner or third parties involved by the public partner shall not be allowed. The private partners shall provide information about implementation to the public partners in the order provided for in the agreement. The central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of public- private partnership. Powers of the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of public-private partnership are as follows. The purpose of the final assessment is to summarise the results of the agreement concluded under the public- private partnership. In the case of need, to prepare proposals for amendments to legislation. 3) in the Law of Ukraine On Local Self-Government in Ukraine (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 1997, No. 24, Article 170 as amended): in Subclause 2, Clause "а", Part 1 of Article 28 the words "which are provided by communal enterprises and organisations of a respective local community" to be deleted. "providing land parcels of public or communal property for the need of the private partner under the public-private partnership in compliance with the law"; In this regard, Paragraph 11–12 are considered Paragraphs 12–20.