This Law defines the legal, economic, organisational and financial basis for government regulation of activities in the field of technology transfer. It aims to ensure the effective use of the scientific, technical and intellectual potential of Ukraine. It also protects the protection of property rights to domestic technologies and/or their components. 7) patent freedom to operate – the characteristic of technologies and/or their components which means it is possible to make free use of them in a certain state. 8) patent and market research – a systematic scientific analysis of the properties of technologies. 9) technology market – a system of interconnections between consumers and suppliers of these technologies and their components. The legislation on government regulation of activities in the field of technology transfer is based on the Constitution of Ukraine, the Civil Code of Ukraine and the Economic Code. It includes existing international treaties of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. The technology transfer entities are enterprises, scientific institutions, organisations, higher education institutions and other legal entities, regardless of form of ownership. Technology transfer entities shall interact with each other within the framework of: 1) development of technologies and/or their components; 2) sharing experiences and information on scientific and technological achievements; 3) consultations on the main issues of scientific and technical as well as technological policy. Article 5. International cooperation of Ukraine in the field of technology transfer provides for: conclusion of bilateral and multilateral international agreements. The main tasks of the authorised body for the implementation of state policy in the field of technology transfer shall be: 1) to determine the most effective ways of using and transferring technologies and their components. 2) to ensure a systematic approach to keeping technology registers and monitoring the transfer of property rights to technologies. 3) to develop infrastructure and attract investments in technology transfer. 4) to identify, prevent and suppress violations in this area. Powers of central executive authorities, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and branch Academies of Sciences in the field of technology transfer. Central executive authorities shall submit proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to draft state programs for the development of economic sectors regarding the acquisition or transfer of rights to technologies. To identify, prevent and stop violations, the authorised body for the implementation of state policy shall interact with the relevant units of the National Police. 3) ensure compiling of databases on technologies and/or their components, property rights. 4) submit information to the authorised body for the implementation of state policy in the field of technology transfer about completed technologies, in particular, developed or purchased for budget funds. 5) ensure compliance with requirements of international agreements of Ukraine on the spread of potentially dangerous technologies. 13) exercise control over the payment by enterprises, scientific institutions, organisations and higher education institutions that will use technologies and/or their components in their activities of remuneration to the authors of technologies. 14) Exercise control over record-keeping of technologies within the property of enterprises. 15) perform other functions within the limits of their powers. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local executive authorities and executive bodies of village, settlement, city, district in cities (if established) shall develop programmes of technological renewal of enterprises. The authorised body for the implementation of state policy in the field of technology transfer, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and branch Academies of Sciences within their powers provide information and consulting support for technology transfer. Article 11. Procedure for transferring property rights to technologies developed for budget funds. Property rights to technology and/or its components belong to institutions, organisations and enterprises-contractors (hereinafter – contractors) under the Civil Code of Ukraine, except for cases provided for in part two of this Article. Property rights to technology and/or its components, developed in the course of performing research and development works, which are financed from budget funds, shall be transferred by institutions, organisations and enterprises-contractors. State authorities, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and branch Academies of Sciences, which finance these research anddevelopment works (hereinafter – customers), subject to the provisions of the Civil Code of Ukraine. The main purpose of government regulation of activities in the field of technology transfer is to ensure the development of national industrial and scientific and technical potential. The main use of technology is to fulfil tasks of social and economic development of the state and ensure the manufacturability of domestic products. State expert examination of technology shall be carried out for: The purpose of conducting state expert examination is to determine the economic feasibility and utility for the state and society of implementing technologies and their components. State expert examination of technologies shall be carried out under the Law of Ukraine “On Scientific and Technical Expert Examination”, taking into account the specifics defined by this Law. 5) the absence in the database of the authorised body for the implementation of state policy in the field of technology transfer of information about similar domestic technology. 6. If, during the state expert examination of technologies and/or their components, patented objects are identified and intellectual property rights are planned to be transferred for use outside of Ukraine, and it is established that in the state where they will be used, such rights are not protected. State-owned enterprises that develop or purchase technologies or their components shall register them to establish the possibility of their use in Ukraine. Funds received from the sale of technologies or technologies and equipment shall be used taking into account the specific conditions defined by this Law. Approval of the import of technologies to Ukraine to be purchased for budget funds shall be carried out during the purchase of them. Technology transfer agreements shall also include terms concerning: 1) license and its scope for use of technologies and their components; 2) territorial restrictions (prohibition to use technology transferred under the agreement, its components within the territory not provided for in the agreement); 3) restrictions on the scope of application of technologies. 4) the procedure for granting sub-licences for the components of technology to third parties. Agreements provided for by the Civil Code of Ukraine shall be concluded regarding the disposal of titles to intellectual property. It is not allowed to conclude technology transfer agreements that provide for: import to Ukraine of technologies and/or their components that may harm the environment or human health. The right of the person transferring the technology to determine the sale or re-export price of products manufactured using this technology. An enterprise, scientific institution, organisation and higher education institution to which property rights to technologies or their components have been transferred shall pay remuneration to the authors of technologies at least once a year and no later than one month after the end of the budget year. In the absence of an agreement with authors and persons carrying out the transfer of technologies, the amount, terms and procedure for payment of remunerated shall be determined by collective agreements. The procedure and areas for using funds received as a result of the transfer of technologies developed for budget funds shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The state shall introduce measures to support technology transfer as a priority area of innovation activity under Article 6 of the Law of Ukraine “On the Priority Directions of Innovation Activity in Ukraine”