Under the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukraine is a sovereign and independent state. The sovereignty of Ukraine shall apply to its entire territory, which shall be integral and inviolable within the existing border. Presence of units of the other states' armed forces within the territory of Ukraine in violation of the procedure defined by the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. Ukraine undertakes to maintain and ensure economic, financial, political, social, informational, cultural and other ties with Ukrainian citizens residing within the temporarily occupied territory. Compensation to the state of Ukraine for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage caused as a result of the temporary occupation shall be fully attributed to the Russian Federation as the occupying state. Russian Federation is the occupying state under the norms and principles of international law. Responsibility for the protection of the cultural heritage within the temporarily occupied territory shall be attributed to the Russian Federation. Ensuring the exercise of rights to employment, pension provision, mandatory state social insurance, social services and education of persons living within the temporary occupied territory. The exercise of rights to employment, pension, mandatory state social insurance in case of unemployment, due to temporary disability, industrial accident and occupational disease that caused the loss of working capacity shall be ensured. Elderly citizens, persons with disabilities, children with disabilities and other citizens of Ukraine experiencing difficult life circumstances shall have the right to be provided with social services under the legislation of Ukraine. Citizens of Ukraine residing within the temporarily occupied territory shall be provided with the possibility of free expression of their will during the presidential, parliamentary elections and all-Ukrainian referendums. Persons specified in paragraphs one and two of this part shall get higher, vocational education (on a competitive basis) and specialised education financed by the state. Government and local authorities established under the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, their officials and officers within the temporarily occupied territory shall act only on the basis, within the limits of their powers. Citizens of Ukraine shall have the right to free and unhindered entry to and exit from the temporarilyoccupied territory through entry/exit checkpoints. Land, its resources, atmospheric air, water and other natural resources located within the territory of Ukraine, which constitute property of the Ukrainian people, shall not become the property of other states, legal entities or individuals. If it is impossible for the state registrar to exercise powers of state registration of real rights to real estate and their encumbrances within the temporarily occupied territory, the state registration body shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Due to inability to administer justice by the courts of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol within the temporarily occupied territories, the territorial jurisdiction of court cases under the jurisdiction of the courts shall be changed. Civil cases under jurisdiction of local general courts will be ensured by the Court of Appeal of Kyiv. Commercial cases will be decided by the Commercial Court of the Kyiv region. Local general courts located within the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol – local general courts at the place of detection of an administrative offenсe. Matters that fall within the competence of an investigating judge in criminal proceedings at the stage of pre-trial investigation and instituted in the territory. An individual (defendant, debtor, stakeholder, third person) permanently residing in the temporarily occupied territory may file a petition to a certain local general court. Cases pending before the court located in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol shall be transmitted to the courts following the jurisdiction established herein. If the damage is caused by foreign citizens and non-residents, jurisdiction shall be established at the place of damage, taking into account the rules of jurisdiction established by this Law. The court shall summon or notify such parties to the case about the date, time and place of other court sessions or about the relevant procedural action. Parties to a case with the last known address of place of residence (stay) or location within the temporarily occupied territory and not having an official e-mail address shall be notified of the relevant court decision. Military personnel of military formations established under the laws of Ukraine and law enforcement agencies of Ukraine who served in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, and their family members shall have the right to privatise duly received residential premises. Privatisation of residential premises occupied by military personnel and members of their families shall be carried out free of charge. Judges who have worked in the courts of Ukraine in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol and have stated willingness to move shall be guaranteed the right to be reassigned to the position of a judge in a court in the rest of Ukraine. The location of state bodies established under the Constitution and laws of Ukraine shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. This law shall come into force on the day following its publication and become invalid from the moment of return of the temporarily occupied territory under the general jurisdiction of Ukraine. Law and other regulatory acts of Ukraine shall be effective to the extent not contradicting this Law. The legal regime provided for by this Law shall be valid until the full restoration of the constitutional order of Ukraine in the temporary occupied territory. Court cases related to disputes arising from the fact of occupation or offences related to occupation shall constitute a separate category of cases. The case shall be considered occupation-related and motivated by a court decision. If a foreign element is party to the case, court orders, summons and other court documents shall be served no later than 15 days before the start of the procedural action. Part 2 of Article 263 shall be restated as follows: “Persons who illegally crossed or attempted to illegally cross the state border of Ukraine, violated the procedure for entering and leaving the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine” Part 3 of Article 19 shall be supplemented with a new part following part 3 to read as follows. The Law of Ukraine “On State Border Guard Service of Ukraine” (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 2003, No. 27, Article 208 amended as follows): а) in part 1 of Article 2: paragraph 3 shall be supplemented with the words “to and from the temporarily occupied territory” following the words "state border of Ukraine" In Article 34, the words “or regime at checkpoints at the state border of Ukraine” shall be replaced by “regime at checkpoints, the procedure for entering and leaving the temporarily occupied territory”; in part five of Article 23: paragraph 2 shall be supplemented with words ‘or through entry/exit checkpoints’; in Article 14 -1 that reads as follows: “Article 14-1. Return of foreigners and stateless persons to the temporarilyoccupied territory 1”. “4. Transit of foreigners and stateless persons through the temporarily occupied territory shall be prohibited”; 7) in the Law of Ukraine “On Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine” (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 2004, No. 15, Article 232): a) part one of Article 12 shall be supplemented with paragraph 8 to read as follows: “within the temporary occupied territories’; 8) in paragraph 3, part two of Article 9 of the law “on Border Control” “To verify fulfilment by a foreigner or stateless person of the requirements as to the period of stay within the territory of Ukraine’ shall be deleted. Criminal law measures may be applied by the court to an enterprise, institution or organisation, except of state bodies, authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self-government bodies, organisations duly established by them. Criminal law measures, in the cases provided for in paragraph 1, part one of Article 96-3 hereof, may not be applied to state or local budgets. Criminal law measures, in the cases provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3, part one of Article 96-3 hereof, may be applied by the court to entities governed by private and public law, residents and non-residents of Ukraine. If a state or a state property owns a share of more than 25 percent in a legal entity or the legal entity is under the effective control of the state, then such legal entity shall bear full civil liability for the wrongfully obtained benefits. Information about a legal entity that criminal law measures may be applied to shall be entered by an investigator or prosecutor in the Unified register of pre-trial investigations. “8. Proceedings against a legal entities shall be carried out simultaneously with the relevant criminal proceedings within which the person has been informed of suspicion” The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall: 1) develop and submit to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine draft laws to meet the requirements and implement the provisions of this Law; 2) recommend the establishment of a special central executive authority for the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine; 3) ensure: a) adoption by executive authorities of regulatory instruments arising from this Law.