This Law establishes the procedure for regulating private law relations that, through at least one of their elements, are related to one or more legal orders other than the Ukrainian legal order. At least one participant in legal relations is a citizen of Ukraine residing outside of Ukraine, a foreigner, a stateless person or a foreign legal entity. This Law applies to the following matters arising in the sphere of private law relations with a foreign element. It includes: determination of the applicable law; procedural legal and dispositive capacity of foreigners, stateless persons and foreign legal entities; 3) jurisdiction of the courts of Ukraine in cases involving aforeign element; 4) execution of court orders. The choice of law or change of the previously chosen law may be made by participants in legal relations at any time, in particular when making a transaction, at various stages of its execution, and so on. Application of the law of a foreign state covers all its norms regulating the relevant legal relations. Any reference to the law of a foreign state should be construed as. the norms of substantive law regulating the relevant legal relations. In cases on personal and family status of an individual, renvoi to law of Ukraine is accepted. Consequences of evasion of law: A transaction and other actions of participants in private law relations aimed at subordinating these relations to another law are null and void. A court must take into account the purpose and nature of such norms, as well as the consequences of their application or non-application. If the law of a state with multiple legal systems is applicable, the appropriate legal system shall be determined in accordance with that state's law. Foreigners and stateless persons have civil legal capacity in Ukraine on an equal basis with citizens of Ukraine. Civil capacity of an individual is determined by his or her lex personalis. Grounds and legal consequences of declaring an individual incapacitated or limiting the civil legal capacity of that person are regulated by that person. Right of an individuals to conduct entrepreneurial activity determined by the law of the state in which that individual is registered as an entrepreneur. Relations between a guardian (custodial) and a person placed under guardianship (c Custody) are determined by the law of the state a body of which has appointed a guardian. Lex societatis shall be law of a state of legal entity location. For the purposes of this Law, the location of a legal entity is the state in which it is registered or otherwise established. A legal entity may not invoke limitation of powers of its body or representative to enter into transaction that is unknown to the law of the state in which the other party is located or resides. Business and other activities of foreign legal entities in Ukraine are regulated by the legislation of Ukraine on legal entities of Ukraine. Validity of a transaction, its interpretation and legal consequences of invalidity of s transaction are determined by the law applicable to the content of the transaction. The procedure for issuing, validity, termination and legal. consequences of termination of a power of attorney is determined by. the law of the state in which the power of. attorney was issued. Right of ownership and other rights in rem ?information about which is subject to entry in state register are determined by the law of the state in which this property is registered. The emergence of right of ownership by acquisitive prescription is determined by law of state where property was located at moment of expiry of prescription period. Consumption contracts include contracts for the purchase of goods and services by a person (consumer) not for business purposes. The choice of law by the parties to consumption contracts may not limit the protection of the consumer's rights granted to him or her by imperative norms of the law of the state of his or her residence. The law of the state in which the consumer has a place of residence or location shall apply. Provisions of parts two and three of this Article do not apply to contracts of carriage and provision of services. The law applicable to the form of a contract is determined in accordance with Article 31 of this Law. The law of a foreign state does not apply in Ukraine if the action or other fact that became the basis for the claim for damage is not illegal under the legislation of Ukraine. Parties to an obligation arising from causing damage may choose the law of the forum at any time after its occurrence. Right to marriage is determined by lex personalis of each of the persons who have submitted an application for marriage. If marriage is concluded in Ukraine, the requirements of the Family Code of Ukraine relating to the grounds for invalidity of marriage shall apply. A form and procedure for entering into marriage in Ukraine between a citizen of Ukraine and a foreigner or a stateless person are determined by the law of Ukraine. Legal effects of marriage are determined by the common personal law of the spouses. Spouses who do not have a common. personal law may choose a law that will apply to the legal effects of. marriage. The choice of law must be made in writing or explicitly follow from the terms of a marriage contract. Annulment of a marriage concluded in Ukraine or abroad is determined by the law applicable under Articles 55 and 57 of this Law. Establishment and contestation of paternity determined by lex personalis of a child at the time of his or her birth. Rights and obligations of parents and children determined by child's Lex personalis or law that is closely related to relevant relationship. Inheritance relations are regulated by the law of the state in which the testator had the last place of residence. The testator's choice of law shall be null and void if his or her citizenship has changed after making a will. The ability of a person to make and revoke a will, as well as the form of a will and the act of its revocation, are determined by the Law of the State. Jurisdiction of the courts of Ukraine in cases with a foreign element is determined at the time of opening proceedings on a case. A court refuses to open a case if a court or other jurisdictional body of a foreign state has a case on a dispute between the same parties. Jurisdiction of the courts of Ukraine is exclusive in the following cases with a foreign element: 1) if the immovable property in respect of which a dispute has arisen is located on the territory of Ukraine. 2) if in a case concerning legal relations between children and parents, both parties have a place of residence in Ukraine. 3) if a dispute is related to the registration of intellectual property rights that require registration or issuance of a certificate (patent) in Ukraine; 4) in an inheritance case a testator was a citizen of Ukraine and had a place in it. Judgements of foreign courts in cases arising from civil, labour, family and economic legal relations can be recognised and enforced in Ukraine. Diplomatic representatives of foreign states accredited in Ukraine and other persons specified in the relevant laws of Ukraine and international treaties of Ukraine are subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of Ukraine only within the limits determined by the principles and norms of international law or international treaties. In Ukraine, judgements of foreign courts in cases of debt collection from an enterprise of the military-industrial complex may not be recognised and executed in favour of a legal entity of the aggressor state and/or the occupier state. This Law shall become effective on 1 September 2005. Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, submit proposals to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on bringing legislative acts of Ukraine in line with this Law. 3. The Cabinet of Ministers shall, within three months from the date of entry into force of this Law, bring its regulatory acts in line.