This Law regulates legal relations in the field of vine-growing and wine-making of Ukraine related to the management of vineyards and growing of grapes. It determines the regulation and control in these branches of production, rights and obligations of producers, powers of executive authorities and is aimed at strengthening the fight against adulteration of wine products in Ukraine. 12) wine means an alcoholic beverage made from grapes, the strength of which is obtained as a result of alcoholic fermentation. 13) wine-growing area means an area where technical varieties of grapes constantly reach sugar degree in the must of not less than 150 g/cdm. 14) grape wine materials mean products of primary grapes processing intended for the production of wines and other wine products. PDO (protected designation of origin) wine means wine of consistently high quality, produced under special or traditional technology from certain grape varieties of a strictly regulated geographical area. The origin and quality of wine shall be specially controlled at all stages of production of raw materials and finished products. fortified wine is wine obtained as a result of complete or incomplete fermentation of must sugars. 31) adulteration of wines, vermouths, cognacs of Ukraine and brandy means intentional counterfeiting. 32) wine quality means the degree of conformity of wine to organoleptic perception. 33) chaptalisation means a technological method of sweetening must in the production of table dry and champagne wine materials. The term “ethyl alcohol” shall be used in the meaning given in the Law of Ukraine “On the State Regulation of Production and Circulation of Ethyl Alcohol, Cognac and Fruit Alcohols, Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco Products”. Planting vineyards for wine-making shall be allowed only in wine-growing areas with the use of regional or promising grape varieties in accordance with the project approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping state farm policy, policy in the field of agriculture. The national vineyard census shall be carried out at least once every 10 years. Mixing European grape varieties with Labrusca species varieties and hybrid direct producers during processing shall be prohibited. Table grapes can be used to make ordinary wines. Processing of the grapes wilted on vine to sugar content in must not more than 40 g/100 cc shall be allowed for production of wines. Wines and cognacs of Ukraine shall be produced in accordance with the rules of production and storage of still wines. The central executive authority shaping the state farm policy, policy in the field of agriculture shall approve the procedure and forms of cost accounting of wines. Materials and substances of Ukrainian and/or non-Ukrainian origin shall be used without restrictions on the proportions of their use in production. Wine materials, cognacs of Ukraine, vermouths, brands and wines for export shall be produced in accordance with the rules of production of wine products in Ukraine. Wines made from imported wine materials and under foreign technological documentation shall beproduced under their specific name, indicating the country of origin of the wine and the place of bottling. Misrepresenting Ukrainian wines, cognac of Ukraine and mixtures with foreign wines as foreign ones shall be prohibited. In trade names of wines of a special type the specific name shall be supplemented by the name of the place of production. Names of other wines and new brands shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of the regulation approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping state farm policy, policy in the field of agriculture. Production of labels for bottles and other elements of exterior decoration of wines and cognacs of Ukraine shall be prohibited. Fortified wines shall be divided into strong, dessert sweet and dessert liqueur wines depending on the alcohol and sugar content. The use of alcoholic must or alcoholic concentrate of grape juice shall be allowed only for the production of special types of wines. Only rectified ethyl alcohol and grape alcohol distillate which meet the requirements of legislation and regulatory and technological documentation on quality and safety for human health may be used for the fortification of wine materials. The production of champagne wines with an alcohol content below 10.5 volume per cent shall be prohibited. White sparkling champagne wines made by champagne technology during secondary fermentation in hermetically sealed containers of champagne wine materials shall be called Champagne of Ukraine. Carbonated wines shall be made from dry wine materials sweetened with grape juice concentrate, canned unfortified must. Wines, vermouths, cognacs of Ukraine and brandies. Adulteration shall be: unregulated use of sugar or products containing sugar, including of grape origin. counterfeit of wine by origin, place of production, varietal composition by adding wine materials from hybrid direct producers. Labelling that does not meet requirements of the legislation.  production of counterfeit cognacs of Ukraine from cognac alcohol, which has been aged for less than 3 years. Storage of wines, vermouths, cognac of Ukraine and brandies in warehouses and their sale without proper shaping of wares indicating the names, origins, details of the manufacturer shall be prohibited. Vineyards planted at the expense of state funding, from 10 to 15 per cent – a fine of five hundred non-taxable minimum incomes. Adulterated wines, vermouths, cognacs of Ukraine, brandies shall be confiscated by a court decision and shall be subject to destruction. Revenue from illegal sale of products shall be directed to the state budget. President of Ukraine V. YUSHCHENKO. City of Kyiv. 16 June 2005. No. 2662-IV. President of Ukraine. V.YUSHCHenko City ofKyiv. 15 June 2005, No.2662-III.