This Law defines the legal basis of the regulation of relations and activities related to the establishment of geographical site names. It is important for addressing tasks of national security, development of economic, science and education, state construction, international cooperation, as well as in everyday life of citizens. The Laws of Ukraine on geographical names are based on the Constitution of Ukraine. This Law also regulates relations on the use in Ukraine of names of geographical sites located in the territory of other states. Geographical sites of Earth that are not under sovereignty and jurisdiction of any state. The establishment of geographical names involves identifying existing or known in the past historical geographical names, naming and renaming geographical sites. The name given to a geographical site shall reflect the most characteristic features of this site, take into account the geographical, historical, natural and other terrains where it is located. Names of eminent statesmen or public figures, representatives of science and culture or other persons whose activity is not related to the relevant geographical sites may be assigned posthumously. It is forbidden to assign the names to geographical sites that are names or pseudonyms of persons holding management positions in the Communist Party. The renaming of geographical sites shall be carried out taking into account the opinion of the majority of the population living in the territory where the sites are located. Geographical names shall be made in the State language. Naming and renaming of geographical sites shall be carried out by: the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils. Proposals on naming and ren naming of a geographical site shall be submitted to the relevant authorities specified in Article 7 of this Law. The renaming of geographical sites related to the necessity to bring the names of such geographical sites in line with the Law of Ukraine “On Condemnation of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and Prohibition of Propaganda of Their Symbols” shall be carried out taking into account the particularities established by the Law. Proposals and decisions of government authorities on the naming and ren naming of  geographical sites shall be submitted to the appropriate expert examination to a designated authority for geographical names. The names of geographical sites in Ukraine as a part of the historical and cultural heritage of the Ukrainian people – citizens of Ukraine of all nationalities – are under the protection of the State. State control over establishment, standardisation, recording, registration and preservation of geographical names shall be exercised by: relevant central executive authorities; designated executive authority for geographical names; local executive authorities and local governments. The State shall promote international cooperation on the issues of establishment, standardisation, recording, registration, use, preservation of geographical names. International cooperation shall be carried out in accordance with the regulatory acts of Ukraine and international treaties of Ukraine. Persons guilty of violating the legislation on geographical names shall be subject to liability. This Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication.