Ecological audit is aimed at improving environmental justification and efficiency of the business entities' activity. The provisions of this Law shall apply to all business entities, regardless of ownership and type of activity. Ecological audit can be carried out in respect of enterprises, institutions and organisations, their branches and representative offices or associations. Ecological audit in Ukraine is carried out to ensure compliance with environmental protection legislation during economic and other activities. The main tasks of the ecological audit shall include: gathering reliable data on ecological aspects of production activity of ecological audit entity and drafting ecological audit opinion based on it. The relations in the field of ecological Audit in Ukraine shall be regulated by this Law. The ecological audit shall be divided into internal and external ones. An ecological audit can be performed by a person (environmental auditor) who has a relevant degree, experience in environmental protection or related fields for at least four consecutive years. Environmental auditors shall be prohibited from performing the ecological audit of economic entities if they own shares in those entities or are otherwise directly related to them. The ecological audit provider shall have the right to determine independently the forms and methods of ecological audit in accordance with the law and the contract with the environmental audit customer. The law shall guarantee the independence of the environmental auditor by means of regulating his/her activity by law, as well as by an agreement. Ecological audit at the military, defence and other entities, information about which is the national security information, shall be held in accordance with this Law. Providers of the ecological audit shall be liable to the customer, prescribed by law and agreement, for the fulfilment of obligations specified in the agreement. The ecological audit report shall be the property of its customer and the basis for making appropriate decisions by him. Opinions of the mandatory ecological audit shall be taken into account when determining the conditions of privatisation of state-owned entities carrying out activities that pose a higher environmental hazard. Training and re-training of environmental auditors may be delivered at the premises of higher education institutions. A mandatory ecological audit can be financed from the State Budget of Ukraine or local budgets. The provider of the ecological audit shall be liable for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage caused as a result of illegal actions during ecological auditing in accordance with the law. An international treaty of Ukraine may provide for mutual recognition of the results of environmental auditors' certification. This Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication. Within three months from the enactment of this Law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall: make proposals to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on bringing the laws of Ukraine in compliance with this Law. Within its competence, ensure adoption of regulatory legal acts resulting from this Law; ensure that central executive authorities bring their regulatory acts in line with this law.