Code of Civil Protection of Ukraine regulates relations related to the protection of people, territories, environment and property against emergencies. It defines the powers of government authorities, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local authorities, rights and responsibilities of citizens of Ukraine, foreigners and stateless persons. 10) epiphytotia – high incidence of contagious plant disease in a specific area. 11) emergency prevention – a set of legal, economic and social, political, organisational and technical, sanitary and other actions to regulate man-made and natural safety. 12) fire equipment – equipment designed to prevent, detect, localise and eliminate fire. 23) medical and psychological rehabilitation – a set of medical and preventive measures, recovery and rehabilitation to restore psycho-physiological functions. 24) emergency – a situation within a specific territory or business site with disrupted living conditions of people. 25) dangerous event – an event, including catastrophe, accident, fire, natural disaster, epidemic, epizootic, epiphytotic, which consequences pose threat to life or health. Fire service – an activity that prevents fire occurrence and protects human life and health, property and environment against exposure to fire hazards. Man-made safety describes the level of protection of people and territories against man-made emergencies. Natural disaster – a natural phenomenon of great destructive force that causes significant damage to the territory it occurs. Civil Protection is the function of the state that protects people, territories, environment and property against emergency. Emergencies are classified by nature of origin, prevalence, human losses and material damage. Emergency classification indicators are identified by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection. The state guarantees and ensures in the Constitution the right to protection of life, health and property. Priority tasks related to saving the lives and protecting the health of people. The Unified National Civil Protection System consists of functional and territorial subsystems and units. It is intended to ensure sustainable operation of businesses, institutions and organisations. Functional subsystems are established by central executive authorities in the respective field of social life. Territorial subsystems of the Unified National Civil Protection System act in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblasts of Ukraine, city of Kyiv and city of Sevastopol. Provisions on the territorial subsystem unit shall be approved by establishing body. The Unified National System based on scale and specific features of an anticipated or occurred emergency operates in the following regimes: 1) Day-to-day operation; 2) High alert; 3) Emergency; 4) State of emergency. Territorial subsystems and units include authorities and their subordinate civil protection forces and respective business entities. Powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in civil protection include the following. Regime of emergency for the Unified National Civil Protection System shall be provisionally declared on specific territorial subsystems within the area with the legal status of the “State of Emergency” as required by the Law of Ukraine “On the Legal Status of the State of Emergency" The central executive authority is in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection. It supervises the activities of the Unified National Civil Protection System. It sets up national-level draft civil protection plan for the peacetime and special period and submits them for approval of Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Co-ordinates, organises and supervises assessing of preparedness of functional and territorial subsystems to civil protection tasks in peacetime and special period. Identifies and implements national policy activities on establishing, maintaining and reconstructing civil protection facility fund and their accounting. Gives an expert opinion on the level of emergency, accounts emergencies. Executes explosive operations to destroy explosives remaining in the territory of Ukraine after wars, modern ammunition and blasting products. Approves emergency Charter of civil protection authorities and quick response rescue units. Regulates the procedure of government oversight in fire and man-made safety, authorisation and registration activities, format of administrative offence documents, procedure of application of preventive actions. 43) Provides training, schedules advanced and refresher training of civil protection non-executive and executive staff per set procedure. 44) Provides civil protection training for the officials of central and local authorities, local governments and businesses, develops, reviews and approves emergency training programmes. 50) Participates in planning of defence procurement orders. 51) Implements national secret policy, monitors compliance of the central executive authority. 52) Cooperates with other countries in civil protection area. 53) Creates and maintains the State Register of Potentially Hazardous Sites. Civil protection units established by the above authorities within their offices. Arrangement of civil protection in functional subsystems and support of man-made and fire safety in the area of public life subject to the national policy. Provisions of the central executive authority on civil protection units shall be approved by the respective central executive Authority. Civil protection powers of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administrations, local governments. Article 19. Main civil protection functions within the competence of the respective central executive authority shall be identified in statutory documents. Central executive authorities that establish no functional subsystems appoint civil protection, man-made and fire safety officers. 14) Categorising businesses under the respective authority based on their main indicators in civil protection category. 15) Establishing and using material reserves to prevent and respond to an emergency. 16) Accumulating in a timely manner and maintaining the continuous ready status of individual protection equipment for people living in the estimated chemical contamination zones. 4) Developing and implementing civil protection programmes and action plans. 5) Supervising created emergency rescue services, units and specialised civil protection services. 6) Co-operating with central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection. 7) Ensuring people alert and awareness of the risk of an emergency. Businesses have responsibilities in civil protection. Arrangement of civil protection in territorial subsystems is provided by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administrations, local governments. Civil protection units under this Code and other legal acts required to ensure operation of infrastructure. 12) Ensuring search-and-rescue service of businesses as required by Article 133 of this Code. 13) Implementing at own expense civil protection measures that reduce emergency risk level. 16) Providing record-keeping of civil protection facilities owned (kept) by a business. Citizens of Ukraine have the right to receive information about emergencies or hazardous events that occurred or may occur. Citizens of Ukraine must: 1) Comply with the rules of conduct, safety rules and rules of acting in an emergency. foreigners and stateless persons legally living in Ukraine have same rights and responsibilities as citizens of Ukraine. Civil protection forces have the following primary tasks: 1) Conducting operations and taking measures to prevent an emergency, protect people and territories. 2) Extinguishing fires; 3) Emergency response in extreme temperature, smoke, gas, risk of explosion, collapse, landslide, flood, radiation. Emergency rescue personnel is divided into core and support. Core emergency rescue personnel provides and delivers emergency rescue and other urgent operations and ensures operational preparedness. Specialised professional emergency service involved in mine-rescue operations is a paramilitary service. State, municipal emergency rescue services and services of NGOs shall be legally recognised on the day of state registration. Emergency rescue services have the right to: 1) Receive information required for their mission from state administrations, local governments and businesses. 2) Easily access business facilities and surrounding area for emergency rescue and other urgent operations, emergency response. 3) Identify safety compliance requirements for all people in the zone of emergency. 4) Document, record video and audio, make films, take photos during emergency response operations. 5) Temporarily deny or restrict access of vehicles and people to the areas close to or within the emergency zone. The central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection defines responsibility areas of central-level quick response rescue units. Criteria for establishment of the state fire rescue units (departments) will be defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Specialised civil protection services (energy, farm animal and plant protection, engineering, utilities, material supply, medical, communication and alert) are established. Civil protection units are established to manage heavy jobs in response to an emergency, military (combat) actions or acts of terror. Businesses that have special equipment and property and personnel is prepared to act in an emergency – by business. Civil protection units shall enjoy the rights of specialised civil protection services identified in this Code. The Procedure of establishment of civil protection units, objectives and operation shall be identified by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ukrainian armed forces, other military units and special law enforcement units established under the existing law of Ukraine in emergency response operations. Non-governmental organisations can be created to execute specific civil protection operations. Alert of the emergency threat or occurrence includes timely delivery of such information to civil protection forces governing authorities, businesses and people. Civil protection emergency threat or occurrence alert procedure in the communication network is defined in the provision approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Civil protection information includes information about forecast or occurred emergencies including classification, exposure and aftermath limits and protection methods. Central civil protection authorities must use mass media to transmit the latest and reliable information. Civil protection structures can be used in peacetime for economic, cultural and everyday purposes as provided by the procedure identified by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Businesses owning protection structures maintain the readiness of these structures for the intended use (including structures not included in their authorised capital during privatisation) at their own expense. State-owned and municipal civil protection structures can not be privatised (seized) In peacetime protection structures. can be leased for economic, cultural and everyday purposes maintaining their intended use. except structures in constant readiness for the intended use, namely. structures that accommodate control systems and shelters for employees of businesses owning high-risk facilities. General evacuation is done for all people categories of the following zones. Partial evacuation can also be done for other categories based on the decision of authorities and officials identified in part IV of this article. Material and cultural property is subject to evacuation in case of threat or occurrence of an emergency that can harm or damage them. Protection engineering includes the following: Zoning of territories based on potentially hazardous facilities and dangerous geological, hydrogeological and meteorological phenomena and processes. Civil protection entities are responsible for protection engineering works. Radiation and chemical protection of people and territories includes: Identification and evaluation of radiation and chemical situation. Radiation and chemical protection of people and territories is based on the following: Identification of businesses equiped with people sanitation and clothe, property, vehicle cleaning areas. Iodine protection of rescue workers involved in radiation accident response operations, personnel of facilities of radiation hazard and residents of potentially contaminated areas with radioactive iodine isotopes to prevent thyroid radiation. Medical protection activities are the responsibility of civil protection entities. Spa facilities of all ownership establish centres for medical and psychological rehabilitation of persons specified in paragraph 1, part I of this article. The list of spa facilities with established medical and Psychological rehabilitation centres shall be jointly approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy. Emergency training for people is provided: 1) At workplace – working people; 2) At respective educational facilities – pre-school children, school children, university students; 3) At place of residence – the unemployed. Training of the employed is mandatory and provided during working hours at the employer's expense. Fire safety training programmes shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection. People who received no fire safety training, were not briefed or tested can not be cleared for duty. People employed in high fire risk jobs must take special training. Ukraine establishes emergency monitoring and forecasting system. List of institutions and organisations owned by entities subject to the emergency monitoring, surveillance, laboratory control and forecasting. Surveillance, laboratory and other control include collection, processing and transmission of environment, food, food commodities, fodder, water radioactive and chemical contamination data.  certification of emergency rescue services is made by the respective interdepartmental commission established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Provisions on the interdepartmentsal commission shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection. Rescue worker's certificate, ID and badge can be cancelled on the following ground: 1) Retirement or reassignment to a position unrelated to key staff; 2) Low practical skills in emergency rescue and other urgent operations, firefighting; 3) Rescue worker fails to take advanced training within scheduled time; 4) Systematic serious violation of safety rules. Uncertified emergency rescue services, rescue workers shall not be authorised to conduct emergency rescue and other urgent operations, firefighting. The emergency service registry is maintained following the procedure set by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection. Voluntary insurance covers emergencies under the existing law. Man-man safety compliance requirements must be in line with people and territory emergency protection, sanitary welfare, environmental protection, environmental, fire, construction engineering and industrial safety standards. Housing management, tenants and landlords in apartment buildings or house owners and tenants of single-owner houses are responsible for the man-made safety management in living quarters. Land and other real estate owner(s) or tenants (lessees) are responsible for ensuring fire safety if this is defined in the lease (rental) agreement. Fire safety authority of associations, corporations, concerns, other business groups shall be defined in their respective charters or business contracts. Businesses are divided into high-risk and low-risk categories based on criteria defined by the Cabinet Ministers of Ukraine. Business submits a declaration to the state administration or central executive authority responsible for the state supervision of man-made and fire safety (licensing authority) The declaration shall be registered by the licensing authority within 10 working days of submission free of charge. State fire service management rests on: 1) central executive authority and units responsible for public supervision of man-made and fire safety; 2) State fire departments (units) of the civil protection quick response and rescue services; 3) Support services responsible for fire safety. Fire services include state, departmental, local and voluntary fire services. In villages, settlements with no fire departments, the local communities establish local fire units upon agreement with the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection. Local fire units ensuring are funded and supported from local budgets and other lawful sources. Voluntary fire units that ensure fire protection at businesses include own personnel of businesses and voluntary fire units in municipalities include municipality residents. Central executive authority responsible for the state supervision in man-made and fire safety. Voluntary fire units can be also funded and supported from the membership fee, contributions, revenues from own economic activity, fire unit property, dividends, proceeds of insurance companies, donations of individuals and companies. Carry out state supervision (oversight) in man-made and fire safety, civil protection to detect and prevent violation of legal requirements committed by businesses and rescue services identified in Article 65 of this Code. Monitore making, storing and targeted use of material resources used by central executive authorities, local state administrations. 18) Impose administrative sanctions for the violation of legal requirements of man-made and fire safety and civil protection. 19) Investigate circumstances and causes of an emergency, death and injury of people, destruction and damage of property. 21) Check availability of explosive work permit; 22) Record sound and video, take photos to document man- made andFire safety violation, prepare emergency prevention proposals. Officials of the central executive authority responsible for the state supervision in man-made and fire safety issue respective requirements, orders and enactments within their authority. Fire safety issues in case of: a) Failure to comply with fire safety requirements defined in this Code, other regulatory documents, standards and rules. The central executive authority responsible for the state supervision in man-made and fire safety can go to Administrative Court to initiate remedial actions. Grounds to terminate operation of enterprises, facilities, specific production facilities, shops, departments, machines, mechanisms, equipment, vehicles include non-compliance with fire safety requirements defined in this Code. Construction of buildings and structures, location of other high-risk facilities, engineering and transport communications that violate legal man-made safety procedure. Termination or suspension of work, facilities, specific facilities, shops, departments, operation of machine, mechanisms, equipment, vehicles, operations, services. Emergency control centres work together with the emergency response crisis centre (if established) Emergency response team leader's orders and instructions are binding for emergency control centre staff. Central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy on civil protection identifies the operation procedure of emergency control centres. All rescue emergency services engaged in response operations shall come under command of the emergency response team leader for the time of emergency response operations. The emergency response crisis centre includes personnel of the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy on civil protection. The leader is personally responsible for the emergency rescue end other urgent operation management. The emergency response crisis centre is deployed and operates in the emergency zone. Engagement of civil protection forces in emergency response operations is based on emergency response action plans and emergency localisation and response plans. High alert and emergency regime is introduced in Ukraine or within its specific area in the event of an emergency, depending on its estimated impact and scale. Air search and rescue of affected persons in the air accident (crash) is done by civil protection entities based on their respective competencies. Emergency rescue and other urgent operations, firefighting are conducted in the shortest possible time without interruption until completion. Students of civil protection educational facilities may be recruited for emergency response operations with the provision of Article 103 of this Code. Fire departments and units establish a 24-hour presence as required by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection. Heavy vehicles operate on roads on way to the site of emergency response and other urgent operations and back based on the permit of authorised National Police unit. Vital support for affected persons is the responsibility of: 1) The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea; 2) In oblasts, cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol; 3) In raions – raion state administrations; 4) In cities, townships and villages – local governments. Emergency response operations are funded from state, local and business budgets. Social protection and compensation of material damage of the emergency affected are funded from state and local budgets. Accommodation of affected persons whose house is no longer habitable due to an emergency is funded by local state administrations, local governments and businesses. Building of residential property for affected persons; 4) Purchase of flats or houses. The amount of monetary compensation for destructed or damaged flat (house) shall be determined based on the average construction cost of residential property in Ukraine depending on the location. The emergency affected have the right for medical and psychological assistance. Ukraine receives, distributes and provides international humanitarian aid for affected persons by an emergency. Article 90. Training, refresher training and advanced training of non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service and rescue workers of professional emergency rescue services. Theoretical knowledge, practical skills and mastery of rescue personnel, other key personnel of professional rescue services are improved during professional training. Civil protection service non-executive and executive staff and professional rescue service staff are graded by classes and medical personnel by categories. The grading procedure and conditions are established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection. Advanced training qualifications are the key factors for the assessment, promotion, rank. Funds for civil protection activities are funded from the national budget of Ukraine, local budgets, budgets of businesses, and other lawful sources. Training of respective civil protection forces for the intended job is done under the command of accountable executives. Medical and psychological rehabilitation of civil protection personnel is funded by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy on civil protection. Emergency prevention and response activities are funded under the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Medical and psychological rehabilitation of minors affected by a local or on-site emergency including minors who lost one or both his/her parents in the emergency is funded from the local or national budget. Civil protection service is a special public service that ensures fire protection, protection of people and territories against the adverse impact of emergencies. Civil protection service reserve shall be established to enable the manning of civil protection services in mobilisation by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy on civil protection. Students of the first year of a civil protection educational facility, aged 17 and above are equal to individuals employed at civil protection service. Individuals who have a criminal record and this criminal record is not expunged under the legal procedure, or individuals who have been under administrative corruption sanctions within the last year can not be employed. Civil protection service candidates must inform respective authorities they apply to about their family members working in this authority. Non-executive, non-commissioned and mid-level staff - up to 50 years. Executive staff -Up to 55 years; 3) Command staff -up to 60 years. Senior executive staff - Major of Civil Protection Service, Lieutenant Colonel of Civil protection Service, Colonel of civil protection service. Executives are dismissed from civil protection service when the Court's decision to bring a person to justice for corruption comes into force. The contract is also terminated (cancelled) The term "direct authority" has the meaning specified in the Law of Ukraine "On Prevention of Corruption" Citizens of Ukraine recruited to civil protection service for the first time shall take the Oath and sign it in person. Citizens of Ukraine acquire the rescue worker status by a decision of respective certification authority based on certification result. Rescue worker is the person certified for rescue and other urgent operations, firefighting, and directly involved in those operations, has respective special, physical, psychological and medical training. Rescue worker follows this Code and regulatory and other civil protection, rescue and/or firefighting documents. During the rescue and other urgent operations and firefighting, the rescue worker reports to his direct management. Only designated officials have the right to interfere with rescue worker activity during emergency rescue. Rescue workers are held responsible under the law for the Improper fulfilment of their duties. Other rescue worker duties are defined in respective statutes, job description (responsibilities) and contracts they signed in recruitment. Uniforms and insignia of non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service and key staff of state emergency rescue services are provided. Individuals and employees of civil protection service or perform service in civil protection forces are provided with identity cards. The state ensures social and legal protection of non-executive and executive staff of civilprotection service, management authorities and civil protection force staff and their family members in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service have the right to establish public associations under the existing law. Staff of emergency rescue services are not allowed to organise strikes or participate in strikes. Family members and employees of professional emergency rescue service are entitled to free spa treatment. Employees who retired with a disability I and II as a result of disease, trauma or injury they sustained in course of their service are entitled to a spa treatment. Civil protection service employees who retired on health grounds and receive a disability pension are also entitled to spa treatment based on medical conditions. Staff directly involved in emergency rescue and other urgent operations or engaged in a 24-hour presence related to emergency response operations, is entitled to take once a year a free medical and psychological rehabilitation of fewer than 14 days. Medical expert commissions of the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection issue conclusions. In case a non-executive or executive of civil protection dies while on duties, his family, and in case he has none, his parents and persons in his care shall receive one-off financial assistance equal to the ten-year allowance of the diseased at his last employment. The degree of incapacity is determined for each particular case as required by law. Non-executive and executive staff of civil protection authorities and units is provided with a lodging or hostel room until permanent housing is provided. In case the above persons continue their service for more than 5 years, they are provided with accommodation on general basis. Students and attendants of educational facilities of the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy are entitled to hostel rooms. Non-executive and executive staff of civil protection authorities and units serving for at least 17 years, including military or enforcement service, in need of improvement of their living conditions, are entitled to free land. The above persons and family members pay 50 per cent of set rent. Local governments allocate land within their legal authority. Families of rescue workers who died while on duty retain the accommodation right including conditions provided for by contracts signed by the rescue workers. Local state administrations and local governments provide priority housing under the law for the retired rescue workers of emergency rescue service who took a post within the service for over 20 years. The family of the diseased employee who was engaged in departmental and local fire protection and the member of voluntary fire department retain the right for benefits he had during employment. The state guarantees financial support of non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service to ensure commitment and diligence. Pension for non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service is paid under the procedure and in the amount set in the Law of Ukraine "On Pension of the Retired from Military Service and Some Other Persons" Working time of the non- Executives is established at 40 hours per week. Non-Executives can take a leave and be recalled from a leave under established procedure. Annual regular leave is granted within a calendar year. Leaves are measured in calendar days. Annual regular leave doesn't account for the time required to arrive at the destination and then return within Ukraine. This time is also not accountable in case the leave is split in two or an employee is recalled from leave. Non-executives and executives of the civil protection service approved for study or an official trip outside Ukraine, are entitled to annual regular leave. Summer school holiday can be less than 15 calendar days. The time required to arrive at the destination and then return is not accounted for in the leaves. Family leave is granted when a non-executive and executive of the civil protection service has used his annual regular leave and other additional leaves. Sick leave at full compensation is granted on basis of medical expert certificate. Total continuous leave from work due to temporary incapacity as a result of disease and sick leave shouldn't be over 4 months. Non-executive and executive staff of the civil protection service to be retired except those retired for age, health reasons or redundancy are entitled at their request to annual regular leave. In case the leave is more than 10 calendar days they are entitled to additional time to arrive at the destination and then return. Non-executives and executives of the civil protection service can only be recalled from annual regular leave by the superior who granted it in case of need. If the unused part of leave is more than 10 calendar days non-executive and executive staff are entitled to the additional time required to arrive at a holiday destination. Emergency registry is kept under the procedure identified by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Businesses and specific territories under an emergency risk are subject to ongoing and mandatory emergency rescue management. State, regional and municipal emergency rescue services can provide paid services that do not hamper and impede their main activity. Emergency response assistance is provided to foreign countries based on assistance request made by respective authority of the county affected by an emergency. Decision on emergency response assistance to foreign. countries requested such assistance including sending of emergency rescue units outside. Ukraine is represented in international organisations on civil protection by the central executive authority. This Code takes effect on the date following the publishing date and is enforced starting from 1 July 2013. The following documents are null and void from the date of enforcement of this Code: 1) Law of Ukraine "On Civil Protection of Ukraine" (News from the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 1993, No 14, p. 125); 2) Bill of Ukrainian Parliament "On the Enactment Procedure of Law of Ukrainian "On Fire Safety" ( news from theVerkhovne Rada in 1994, No 5, p 22); and 3) "On General Framework and Number of Civil Defence Forces" Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within six months of the effective date of this Code must: ensure adoption of regulatory acts provided by this Code; bring its regulatory acts in line with this Code. Law of Ukraine "On Legal Grounds of Civil Protection" (News from the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 2004, No 39, p. 488; 2005, Nos 17-19, p 267; 2006, No 51, p 519)