Law of Ukraine No. 1629-IV of 18 March 2004. State Programme for Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to the Legislation of the European Union (attached hereto) The goal of adaptation of the Ukrainian legislation to the legislation of the EU is to achieve the compliance of the legal system of Ukraine. The state policy of Ukraine on the adaptation of legislation shall be shaped as a component of the legal reform in Ukraine. It shall aim at ensuring the unified approaches to legislative drafting, compulsory taking into account the requirements of the European Union legislation during the legislative drafting. It will also aim at creating proper conditions for institutional, technical and financial support for the process of adaptation of Ukrainian legislation. The Partnership and Co-operation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities and their Member States of 14 June 1994 determines the priority fields of adaptation of legislation. By the Common Strategy on Ukraine approved by the European Council at the Helsinki Summit on 11 December 1999, the European Union supported the process of economic transformations in Ukraine. The State Council for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine was established by the Decree of the President of Ukraine No. 791 of 30 August 2002. At the Yalta Summit Ukraine—European Union on 7 October 2003, common understanding was achieved that one of the most efficient ways to use the opportunities of the current EU enlargement for Ukraine was to intensify its work on the adaptation of the national legislation, provisions and standards to the relevant EU provisions. This Programme determines the goal, main terms, institutional mechanism for adaptation of Ukrainian legislation, principles of financial, staffing and information support for the implementation thereof. In priority areas, the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation shall be implemented in the following order: determining the acquis communautaire acts regulating the legal relations in a relevant area; translation of determined acts into Ukrainian; conducting a fully-fledged comparative analysis of legal relations. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall ensure implementation of the Programme, except for the issues falling under the competence of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. An authority coordinating the work on Programme implementation shall be the competent central executive authority in the field of adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to the legislation of the European Union. The Coordination Council shall annually draw up a report on the progress of Programme implementation to be published at the plenary session of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on or before 1 March. The scientific and expert, analytical, information and methodological support for the Programme implementation shall be assigned to a competent central executive authority. Draft laws of Ukraine and other draft regulatory acts must in all cases undergo the expert examination for compliance with acquis communautaire. Measures aiming at the implementation of the Programme shall be financed at each stage at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine, funds of international technical assistance and other sources not prohibited by the legislation of Ukraine.