This Law defines the legal, economic, environmental and organisational principles of the use of alternative energy sources. It promotes the expansion of their use in the fuel and energy sector. It defines alternative energy resources as solar, wind, geothermal, hydrothermal, wave and tidal energy, biomass energy, landfill gas, gas from sewage treatment plants, biogas.  production of pieces for the electric power facility equipment shall mean activities related to the production. guarantee of electricity origin shall mean a document issued by an entity authorised by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the request of the electricity producer. “green” tariff shall mean special tariff at which electricity generated by electric power facilities is purchased. Auction price shall mean the price of 1 kilowatt-hour of electricity offered by the business entity, which has been recognised as the winner of the support quota distribution auction. Electronic trading system shall mean a two-tier information and telecommunication system consisting of a central database and electronic platforms. Annual quota of support for business entities producing electricity from alternative energy sources shall mean amount of capacity of electric power facilities. The basic principles of state policy in the field of alternative energy sources shall be as follows: increasing production and consumption of energy produced from alternative sources, in order to efficiently consume traditional fuel and energy resources and reduce dependence of Ukraine on their imports. The term “ultimate beneficial owner (controller)” shall be used in this Law in the meaning given in the Law of Ukraine “On Prevention and Counteraction to Legalisation (Laundering) of the Proceeds of Crime”. The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall determine the main directions of state policy in the field of alternative energy sources and carry out legislative regulation of the relations herein. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and other competent executive authorities, within the powers defined by the law, shall implement state policy and administer it. Financing of measures in the field of alternative energy sources shall be carried out both at the expense of funds provided in wholesale electricity tariffs and heat energy tariffs. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may allocate funds from the state budget for the financial support of the guaranteed buyer to pay for electricity produced from alternative sources. The “green” tariff shall be set by the National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission on electricity generated at electric power facilities, including the commissioned construction stages of power plants. Business entities producing electricity from alternative energy sources (except for blast-furnace and coke-oven gases, and only electricity generated by micro, mini and small hydroelectric power plants if hydro energy is used) shall not be obliged to participate in auctions. “Green” tariff has been set for each business entity producing electricity from alternative energy sources, for each type of alternative energy and each electric power facility or each stage of a power plant construction (start-up complex), taking into account the provisions of this article, Article 9 -2 and Article 9-4 of this Law. The “green’ tariff for electricity produced by generating installations of private households, consumers, including energy cooperatives, shall be set. “ green’ tariffs for wind energy shall be at the level of the retail tariff for consumers of the second voltage class as of January 2009. The “green” tariff for business entities producing electricity from biomass shall be set at the level of the retail tariff for consumers of the second voltage class as of January 2009. For the purposes of this Law, biomass shall mean the non-fossil biologically renewable organic substance, capable of biological decomposition. The “green” tariff for electricity produced by private households from solar energy and wind energy from combined wind and solar generating systems shall be set at the level of the retail tariff for consumers of the second voltage class as of January 2009, multiplied by the coefficient of the ‘green’ tariff. The “ green” tariffs for electricity from biomass by generating installations, the installed capacity of which does not exceed 150 kW. The “green’ tariff for electricity produced by consumers, including by energy cooperatives, from solar energy and wind energy on combined wind and solar generating systems with an installed capacity not exceeding 150 kW, shall be set at the level of the retail tariff for consumers of the second voltage class as of January 2009. “Green” tariff for business entities operating micro, mini or small hydroelectric power plants. “Green’ tariff for electricity generated by generating installations of consumers, including energy cooperatives, with an installed capacity not exceeding 150 kW, shall be set at the level: Confirmation of the fact and date of the electric power facility commissioning, including the power plant construction stages (start-up complex), producing electricity from alternative energy sources. The fixed minimum “green” tariff amount for business entities, private households and consumers, as well as energy cooperatives, shall be set by converting into euro. The ‘green’ tariff for electric power facilities commissioned before 31 December 2024 cannot be less than the fixed minimum tariff amount. The premium to the “green” tariff for compliance with the level of use of the equipment produced in Ukraine shall be set and be applicable for the entire ‘green’ tariff validity period. In the event of amendments to the legislation governing the procedure for stimulating the production of electricity from alternative energy sources, business entities may choose a new stimulation procedure. The state shall guarantee the entire “green” tariff validity period of the requirements for the purchase in each billing period of electricity generated at the electric power facilities. The premium for compliance with the level of use of the equipment produced in Ukraine shall be a fixed premium to the ‘green’ tariff or the auction price. The premium for compliance with the level of use of the equipment produced in Ukraine for the relevant electric power facility distributing electricity at a “green” tariff shall be set in monetary terms by the National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission, for each date of recalculation of the fixed minimum ‘green’ tariff amount. The level ofuse of equipment at power facilities producing electricity from alternative energy sources (and only electricity generated by micro, mini and small hydroelectric power plants if hydro energy is used) shall be defined as the sum of the corresponding specific percentages of equipment pieces. The certificate (certificates) of origin duly issued by the Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (its regional representative offices) shall confirm the fact that the available equipment pieces of the electric energy facility have been produced in Ukraine. The state shall guarantee the enshrining in law for the entire “green” tariff validity period and the period of support for producers of electricity from alternative energy sources. Business entities intending to produce electricity from wind or solar energy shall participate in the auction. The installed capacity of the facilities must be more than 5 MW for wind energy and more than 1 MW for solar energy. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine annually, no later than December 1, shall establish an annual support quota and auction schedule. The annual support quota shall be divided into shares by separate alternative energy sources. For electric power facilities or stages (start-up complexes) producing electricity from solar energy, the size of such a share may not be less than 10 per cent. Auctions for the distribution of support quotas shall be held for separate energy sources (except for blast-furnace and coke-oven gases) Auctions shall be held in the electronic trading system under the procedure for holding auctions for the support quota distribution, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The auction shall be conducted under the agreement concluded between the auction customer and the operators of electronic platforms. Auctions will be held from 1 July 2019 until 31 December 2029. An irrevocable bank guarantee for participation in the auction shall be submitted by the business entity separately for each electric power facility or stage (start-up complex) for which it intends to acquire the right to support. Information on the absence of the ultimate beneficial owner and the reason for its absence shall be indicated. The price bid of the bidder participating in the auction for the distribution of part of the support quota for electric power facilities may not be higher than 12 Eurocents per 1 kilowatt-hour. The capacity amount for which, as a result of the auction, participants acquire the right to support, may not exceed 80 per cent of the total capacity amount offered by all participants in the relevant auction. The bid opening protocol shall be formed automatically and published in electronic form by the electronic trading system on the day when the auction ends. The business entity shall have the right to receive no more than 25 per cent of the annual support quota for the respective year, independently or together with other business entities with which it has a joint ultimate beneficial owner.  guaranteed buyer refuses to sign the protocol on the auction results, concluding a contract with the winner. The guaranteed buyer shall draw up an act stating the grounds for such the refusal and publish it in the electronic trading system. The amount of the bank guarantee issued as a security for the fulfilment of obligations under the contract shall be 15 euros for each kilowatt of capacity. The contract stipulates the auction winner's obligations for the construction and commissioning of the electric power facility. The business entity shall provide the guaranteed buyer with an act on the provision of services for connection of the facility to the electric network of the transmission system operator or distribution system. The irrevocable bank guarantee provided by the business entity as a security for the fulfilment of obligations under the contract shall be returned. Payment of the value for electricity supplied by business entities that have acquired the right to support as a result of the auction shall be made monthly, no later than the 20th day of the month following the settlement period. The term of providing support shall be 20 years from the day following the day of providing the business entity with the documents specified in the first sentence of part 40 of this Article. At the level of 0.925, for business entities producing electricity from solar energy and/or wind energy at electric power facilities or their construction stages (start-up complexes), which were commissioned from 1 July 2015 until 31 December 2019. At 0.85, forBusiness entities producing Electricity from solarEnergy at Electric Power Facilities or Their Construction stages (Start-up Complexes), which consist of single wind turbines with the installed power of 2000 kW and more. At the level. 0.975, for Business entities producing. electricity from wind Energy at ElectricPowerFacilities or Their construction stages, which were. commissioned from January 2020. Business entities producing electricity from alternative energy sources (and only electricity generated by micro, mini and small hydroelectric power plants if hydro energy is used) at electric power facilities or their construction stages (start-up complexes) A “green” electrometallurgy enterprise shall mean a legal entity engaged in steel production business in compliance with the standards on direct carbon dioxide emissions from steel production. For “green” electrometallurgy enterprises, a tariff shall be set for the transmission of electricity purchased for steel production, without taking into account the costs of the transmission system operator for special responsibilities to increase the share of electricity production from alternative energy sources. The state shall guarantee that for the period from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2029 for business entities for which the ‘green’ tariff is set or will be set under part three of this article. Aero thermal, hydrothermal or geothermal heat generated by heat pumps should be considered to be extracted from renewable energy sources. The final energy output significantly exceeds the initial consumption of energy required to actuate the heat pumps. need to coordinate and balance the frequency for transmission of energy produced from alternative sources. This Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication. Within six months from the day of enactment of this Law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall develop a financial mechanism to stimulate the development of alternative energy. If an international treaty of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine sets rules other than those contained in this Law,. rules of the international treaty shall apply.