The adaptation of the Ukrainian legislation to the legislation of the European Union means the gradual adoption and implementation of the regulatory acts of Ukraine developed taking into account the EU legislation. European Union legislation consists of: The Treaty establishing the European Economic Community of 1957, the Treaty established the European Atomic Energy community of 1957. The Single European Act of 1986. The Maastricht Treaty of 1992. The Treaty of Amsterdam of 1997. A key factor of the legal reform implementation and the Ukrainian integration to the European Union will be the developing and implementing of the National Programme. At the time of this Concept development, the fundamental political and legal, and organisational base for carrying out the adaptation of the Ukrainian legislation to the EU legislation has already been created. The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities and their Member States of 14 June 1994. The National Programme is a set of the interrelated tasks for adaptation of the Ukrainian legislation to the EU legislation. The main tasks of the National Programme are: to ensure the compliance of the legislation of Ukraine with the obligations arising from the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities. The National Programme should provide for: annual development of a joint work plan of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for adapting legislation. to improve staffing in state authorities, training of specialists who would meet the special qualification requirements for participants of the process of legislation adaptation. to increase civil servants' language skills of the official languages of the EU Member States. The National Programme is formed on the basis of long-term priorities of economic, scientific, technical, social, national and cultural development of the country. It aims at solving such important social problems as economic reform, democratization of society, creating conditions for Ukraine's integration into the European Union. Elaboration and implementation should be carried out in compliance with the following basic principles. Priorities in the National Programme should be given to the legislative acts of Ukraine. A special priority is the comprehensive protection of human rights and freedoms. Adjustment of the legislation of Ukraine is a planned process, which includes several successive stages, at each of which a certain degree of compliance with EU legislation must be achieved. The National Programme should be formed considering the principles indicated above, as well as the experience of Central and Eastern European countries. The assessment of the impact of the Ukrainian legislation, which is adapted to the legislation of the European Union, should be based on a comprehensive approach. Drafts of the National Programme and annual work plans for the adaptation of legislation are prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.  determination of measures of legislation adaptation. Assessment of the economic, social and political changes that are expected as a result of the implementation of appropriate measures in this area. determination of the need for new staff, equipment and information network. Measures for their training and professional development, including intensive improvement of knowledge of foreign languages. The National Programme will support the achievement of the criteria for concluding an association agreement with the European Union. Financing of measures aimed at the implementation of the National Programme at each level will be carried out at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine and other sources not prohibited by the Ukrainian legislation. To organize the work properly, relevant expenditures in the State budget of Ukraine will be provided annually.