The principles of state policy, the basic principles of aquaculture development and operation are defined by this Law. The legal fundamentals for the activities of executive authorities and local governments in the field of Aquaculture are also defined by the Law. Section I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1. Definitions. Closed aquaculture conditions are the conditions under which breeding, support and cultivation of Aquaculture objects are carried out in an aquatic environment separated from the water object (part thereof) The use of closed water supply installations belongs to closed conditions ofaquaculture. Intensive form of aquaculture is an organisational and technological form of fishery activity in the field of aquACulture.  introduction of aquaculture objects are the actions of hydrobionts migration (introduced species) into water objects (their parts) located outside their natural range. Quarantine fishery isolators are fishery technological reservoirs, fishery basins, closed water supply installations, etc. Aquaculture products include food and non-food products made from them, including food and caviar.  recreational services in the field of aquaculture are actions related to the organisation of recreation. Recreational services include amateur and sports harvesting (catching) of Aquaculture objects. Replacement broodstocks are different age groups of hydrobionts, including their sexually mature individuals (producers), aimed to obtain sexual products (reproductive cells) and/or offspring. Fish collection and drainage channel is a channel located in the bed of a fishery technology reservoir and is charged by to provide water withdrawal from it. Artificial breeding (reproduction) of aquatic bioresources are actions for breeding, cultivation of aquaculture objects, connected with their subsequent migration into aquatic objects. alien species of hydrobionts are species or subspecies of aquaticBioresources that appear outside their natural range. Legislation of Ukraine on Aquaculture is based on the norms of the Constitution of Ukraine. This Law is applied to legal relations in the field of aquaculture, which are carried out in inland water objects (their parts), fishery technology reservoirs, inland waters, territorial sea and exclusive (marine) economic zone. Aquaculture entities have a right: to use fishery water objects (their parts), fishery technological reservoirs, water area (water space) of inland marine waters, territorial sea, exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine. Aquaculture subjects are obliged to: preserve the regulations in the field of aquaculture. Aquaculture objects that are bred, supported and/or grown by aquaculture subjects within the limits provided by law in private property are in their private property for the use of fishery water objects (their parts) The powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the field of Aquaculture shall include the following: ensuring the formation of state policy. The powers of the central executive authority that implements the state policy in the field of fishery include: development of regulatory acts in the. field of aquaculture; providing the control over the submission of reporting information on the production volume of. Aquaculture products. The powers of Ministers Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in theField aquaciculture shall include: participation in developing and implementation of federal programs, republican programs. Powers of local authorities in the field of aquaculture shall include: making available for use the parts of a fishery water object. The main directions to obtain commercial Aquaculture can be pasture, pond and industrial aquacurity. For performing pond aquaciculture are applied fishery technologic reservoirs, as well as channel and camped ponds. For performing industrial aquaculture as well as mariculture, fishery ponds, aquariums are used. Aquaculture objects, migrated into water objects (their parts) in the result of their artificial breeding (reproduction) and cultivation for the purpose of restoring of natural population, renewal of aquatic bioresources and preserving their biodiversity, shall belong to state property. Fishery technology reservoir is provided for aquaculture purposes by the authority performing the order of land plot under water (water space) in accordance with Land Code of Ukraine, contract of lease on land in a complex with a water object located on it. While providing legal entity or individual with lease of fishery technology reservoirs, such a person can also receive hydraulic structures for use. Contract of lease for the part of fishery water object, water areas (water space) inland sea waters, territorial sea, exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine is concluded in written. Methodology of payment amount determination for the use of the part is approved by central executive authority. Harvesting (catching) of aquatic bioresources for aquaculture purposes is carried out during the industrial period defined by the legislation. Hydrobionts imported from abroad, aimed for further breeding, keeping and cultivation, are in quarantine fishery isolators permanently. It is forbidden to install together in quarantine conditions hydrobionts of different ages, different species and at different time. Gene pool collections and replacement broodstocks of aquaculture objects can be a part of state, municipal or private property. Provision of finance for events regarding selective and breeding work is carried out at the expense of funds of State budget of Ukraine. Executive authority, local authority, business entities, citizens shall contribute to the development of the national export potential of breeding (genetic) resources. Use of alien and non-native species of hydrobionts in the field of aquaculture is carried out given the prevention of their uncontrolled dissemination in new habitats. Introduction, acclimatisation and re-acclimatisation are performed with the Prevention of negative impact on the state of populations of aboriginal species of aquatic bioresources. Central executive authority, implementing state policy in the field of fishery, provides control over the breeding and/or cultivation of alien and non-native species of hydrobionts in opened and/ or closed aquaculture conditions. Main objectives of state support include development of scientific basis for selection and breeding work, creation and implementation of selective achievements. State support in the field of aquaculture is provided in accordance with the laws of Ukraine “On State Support of Agriculture in Ukraine”, ‘On Peculiarities of Insurance of Agricultural Products with State Support’ and other legislative acts, which regulate the relations in the sphere of state support of agricultural producers. This Law shall enter into force on 1 July 2013, except for clause 3 of this Section. Amendments shall be made to the following legislative acts of Ukraine. If international treaties of Ukraine establish other rules and provisions, comparatively with those, which are provided by this Law, the rules of these international treaties shall be applied.  reservoirs (except multi-appointment reservoirs), ponds, lakes and natural closed reservoirs may be available for use on a lease basis for fishery management needs, culture and health, medical, recreational, sport and tourism purposes. Water objects are provided for use without restraint of the right of general water use, except the cases defined by law. The lease contract of the water object defines the obligations to implement measures to protect and improve the ecological condition. Lessees to whom a water object has been given for the use as leased, may allow other water users to bring about special water use. The use of leased water objects is carried out in accordance with the requirements of this Code and other legislative acts of Ukraine. Central executive authority implementing state policy in the field of fishery shall perform the calculation of water areas (water space) of inland sea waters, territorial sea, exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall provide preparation and submission of the draft to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on amendments of several legislative acts of Ukraine regarding the regulation of relations.