Land is the fundamental national wealth that is under special state protection. The use of ownership of land shall not cause harm to the rights, freedoms and dignity of citizens, the interests of society, aggravate the ecological situation and the natural qualities of land. Land relations shall be regulated by the Constitution of Ukraine, this Code, as well as duly adopted regulatory acts. The powers of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine in the field of land relations shall be as follows: a) adoption of laws; b) determination of the principles of state policy; c) approval of national programmes for land use and protection; d) establishing and changing the boundaries of raions and cities; e) coordination of issues related to the change of purpose of especially valuable state-owned property lands. The powers of Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils in the field of land relations on their territory shall be as follows: disposal of land pertaining to the city territorial community; transfer of municipal land plots to the ownership of citizens and legal entities under this Code. The powers of district city councils shall be determined by city councils. The powers of village, settlement, city councils in the field of land relations in the territory of villages, settlements, and cities shall be as follows: a) disposal of land pertaining to the territorial communities; b) transfer of municipal land plots to the ownership of citizens and legal entities under this Code; c) provision of the right to use the land plots pertaining to municipal land. Central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of environmental protection and in the sphere of land relations. Powers of the central executive authority, implementing state policies on state supervision (oversight) shall include state control over compliance by the executive authorities and local governments with the legal requirements on land use and protection. The powers of the central executive authority shaping state policies in the field of land relations shall be as follows: a) ensuring the regulatory and legal support in theField of Land Relations; b) implementation of the land reform; c) development and implementation of national, regional land use and protection programmes; d) ensuring implementation of land engineering, land monitoring and state control over land use. G-1) disposal of state-owned lands within the scope under this Code. g-2) contributing to shaping and implementing state policies in the field of national geospatial data infrastructure. h) addressing other issues determined by the laws of Ukraine and assigned to it by acts of the President of Ukraine. The powers of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the field of land relations shall be as follows: a) disposal of state-owned lands within the scope under this Code; b) participation in the development and implementation of national and republican programmes on land use and protection. The lands of Ukraine include all lands within its territory, including islands and lands occupied by water bodies. They are divided into categories according to their main purpose and have a special legal regime. Ukraine may have state-owned land plots outside its territory with their legal regime to be determined by the respective country's legislation. The purpose of land plots of state or municipal ownership shall be changed by the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Change of purpose of privately owned land plots shall be carried out at the initiative of the land plots' owners. The land engineering project for the allocation of a private land plot, the purpose of which is changed, shall be developed at the land owner's request. Land plots of defence purpose shall be used exclusively under the Law of Ukraine “On Use of Defence Lands”. Change of especially valuable land's purpose allowed only for allocation on them of objects of national importance, roads, power transmission and communication lines, pipelines, drainage and irrigation canals. Agricultural lands include: a) agricultural lands (arable land, perennial plantations, hayfields, pasture fields and fallow land); b) non-agricultural Lands (farm roads and drift fences, field-protective forest belts and other protective plantings); and c) lands designated for infrastructure of wholesale agricultural markets. Agricultural lands shall be transferred to ownership and provided for use of citizens. In case of liquidation of a state or municipal enterprise, institution, organisation, the lands in their permanent use, by the decision of the relevant executive authority or local government, shall be transferred to the reserve lands or provided to other citizens and legal entities for use. The individuals specified in part 1 of this Article shall obtain the private ownership of the lands free of charge. The sizes of land plots allocated for employees of state and municipal facilities, enterprises and organisations of culture, education and healthcare, and pensioners from among them living in rural areas or urban-type settlements may not exceed the norms for personal peasant farming. In-farm roads, farmyards, field-protective forest belts and other protective plantings, hydraulic structures, water bodies, etc. may be transferred to citizens. Land plots of state-owned and municipal ownership previously used by agricultural enterprises, institutions and organisations that are being liquidated, shall be included in the reserve lands. Citizens may take a lease of land plots for haymaking and pasturing. Executive authorities and local governments may establish public hayfields and pastures. Citizens of Ukraine shall have the right to acquire free of charge or take a lease of the land plots for individual or collective gardening from the state-owned and municipal lands. Foreign nationals and stateless persons, as well as legal entities, may possess land plots on the lease terms. The land plots of gardening societies shall be used in accordance with the law and the charters of these societies. Owners of land plots of all ownership forms located in the massif of agricultural lands may exchange such land plots. State-owned or municipal land plots occupied by field roads designed for access to land plots shall be leased. The right to lease the land shall be acquired in the manner prescribed by the Law of Ukraine “On Land Lease” The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall establish the rules for the maintenance and preservation of field-protective forest belts located on agricultural lands. The boundaries of land plots located in the area of agricultural lands may be changed in the process of land consolidation on the terms and in the manner prescribed by the law. The lands for residential and public buildings shall be used under the general plan of the settlement. Housing-construction (residential) and garage-building cooperatives may acquire ownership of land plots under civil law agreements. Land plots of multi-family residential buildings, as well as buildings, structures and adjacent territories of state or municipal ownership belonging to them, shall be provided for permanent use. Lands of other nature protection purpose include land plots within which there are natural objects of special scientific value. Lands of health-improving purpose shall include lands that have natural healing properties that are or can be used for disease prevention and treatment. Restraints of the activities on the lands of Health-Improving purpose include not performing activities that contradict their intended purpose or may adversely affect these lands. Lands of recreational purpose include land plots of green zones and green plantations in the cities and other settlements. Public lands of a countryside cooperative include the land plots occupied by protective belts, roads, passages, buildings and constructions of public use. Lands of historical and cultural purpose include lands on which cultural heritage monuments, their complexes (ensembles) are located. Forest fund lands include lands covered with forest vegetation. Non-forest lands include green plantations within settlements that are not classified as forests. Citizens and legal entities may gain right of ownership to land plots of degraded and unproductive lands for afforestation. The right to water fund lands may be in state, municipal and private ownership. Citizens and legal entities may obtain right of ownership to enclosed water bodies (with a total area of up to 3 hectares) free of charge. Owners may create fishery, anti-erosion and other artificial water bodies on their land plots. Water fund lands may be used for fishing purposes with the consent of their owners or land users. A shoreline protection belt at least two kilometres wide from the water's edge shall be established. At steepness of slopes more than three degrees, the minimum width of a shoreline Protection belt doubles. Within the shorelineprotection belts, the citizens shall be provided with unimpeded and free access to the marine coasts, marine bays, estuaries and islands in the internal marine waters. The economic activity regime on land plots of shoreline protection belts along rivers, around water bodies and on islands shall be established by the law. Buildings that are not suitable for operation, as well as those that do not meet the established economic activity regimes, are subject to removal. It is prohibited to install fences or other structures that prevent citizens from accessing the river banks, water body and islands. The economic activity regime on land plots of shoreline protection belts along seas, sea bays and estuaries and on islands in the internal sea waters shall be established by the law. The construction of any structures, except for hydraulic, hydrometric and linear, as well as engineering and fortification structures, fences, border signs, border clearings, communications shall be prohibited. It is prohibited to install fences or other structures that prevent access of citizens to the coast of the seas. Lands of industrial, transportation, communications, power, defence and other purpose are land plots provided in the prescribed manner to enterprises, institutions and organisations to carry out relevant activities. Sizes of shorelines of waterways shall be determined by land management projects, which are developed and approved in a prescribed manner. Transport lands shall include lands provided to enterprises, institutions and organisations of railway, traffic and road infrastructure, maritime, river, aviation, pipeline transport and urban electric transport. Transport lands may be in state, municipal and private ownership. Railway transport lands include the land of railway allotment lanes under the railway tracks and its arrangement. Road transport lands include lands occupied by the carriageway, roadside, earthworks, decorative landscaping, reserves, ditches, bridges, tunnels, transport interchanges, culverts, retaining walls and other road structures and equipment. Air transport lands shall include the lands of: a) airports, aerodromes, separate structures (air traffic control facilities, radio navigation and landing, treatment and other facilities), service and technical areas. Lands for defence needs shall include the lands for allocation and permanent operation of military units, institutions, military educational institutions, enterprises and organisations. The right of ownership to land shall be acquired and exercised on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine, this Code, as well as other laws enacted in accordance with them. Land plots shall not be returned to persons (their heirs) who owned land plots before 15 May 1992. The right of ownership to a land plot shall apply within its scope to the surface (soil) layer, as well as to water bodies, forests and perennial plantations located on it. A land plot may be the object of civil rights only from the moment of its formation. In case of establishing (restoring) the land plots' boundaries according to their actual use due to the impossibility of identifying the actual boundaries, the formation of new land plots shall not be carried out. The state registration of sublease rights and easements applying to the land plot's part, shall be carry out after entering information about this part into the State Land Cadastre. Citizens of Ukraine shall acquire right of ownership to land on the basis of: a) purchase under a contract of sale, rent, gift, exchange, other civil law agreements; b) free transfer from state-owned and municipal lands; c) privatisation of land plots that were previously provided to them for use; d) acceptance of inheritance; e) allocation in kind (on the ground) of their land share. State-owned land plots to be used to accommodate facilities intended to serve the needs of the territorial community. Municipal lands that cannot be transferred to private ownership include: a) public lands of settlements (squares, streets, driveways, roads, embankments, beaches, parks, squares, boulevards) All lands of Ukraine are in state ownership, except for lands of municipal and private ownership. State-owned lands that cannot be transferred to private ownership include: lands of nuclear energy and space system. Foreign states may acquire land plots for the accommodation of buildings and structures of diplomatic missions. Land plot may be in joint ownership with the determination of the share of each of the participants in the joint ownership (joint common ownership) The subjects of the right of joint ownership to a land plot are citizens and legal entities, as well as the state, territorial communities and district and regional councils. Land plots may be in joint common ownership if they are owned by: a) spouses; b) members of the individual farm, unless otherwise provided for by their mutual agreement; c) co-owners of a residential building. Possession, use and disposal of land shall be carried out under the contract or the law. Land plots of state-owned and municipal ownership may not be the objects of trust property. Land owners shall have the right to: a) sell or otherwise alienate the land plot, lease, pledge, transfer as the inheritance or trust ownership. Violated rights of land owners shall be subject to restoration. The right of permanent use of land plots may be contributed by the state to the authorised capital of a public joint-stock company of rail transport. The right to lease a land plot shall mean the contractual paid possession and use of a land plots for a certain period. The lease period of the land plot may not exceed 50 years. Land plots required for the implementation of a public-private partnership (implementation of a project carried out on the terms of a concession) shall be leased exclusively to a private partner, concessionaire. Lessors of land plots are the owners thereof or persons authorised by them. Relations pertaining to land lease shall be regulated by the law. Executive authorities, local governments, which in accordance with this Code are empowered to transfer land for use, shall be obliged within three months from the date of application to transfer to a private partner. Land plots necessary for the implementation of public-private partnership (implementation of a project carried out on the terms of a concession) may not be divided, combined with other land plots. Land users' responsibilities include ensuring the use of land for its intended purpose. Violated rights of land users shall be subject to restoration in the manner prescribed by the law. Exploration on the lands of reserves, national dendrological, botanical, memorial parks, burials and archaeological monuments shall be allowed in exceptional cases. Amber subsoil users conducting geological exploration and/or amber mining are allowed to use the land plot. The standard form of the specified contract shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The land easement period established by a contract between the person requesting its establishment and the land user may not exceed the period for which such land plot is transferred. An easement may be established by a contract, law, will or court decision. It may belong to the owner (possessor) of a neighbouring land plot, as well as to another specifically identified person (personal easement) The right to place (move, transfer) the objects of engineering infrastructure of amelioration systems. The right to use third party's land for agricultural purposes or for the construction (emphyteusis) shall arise by virtue of the contract between the land plot owner and a person who has expressed a desire to use this land for such needs, in accordance with the Civil Code of Ukraine. The land easement may not be the subject of sale, pledge or transfer. The right to use a state-owned or municipal land plot may neither be alienated by its land user to other persons (except in cases of transfer of ownership for buildings and structures), nor contributed to the authorised capital, or pledged. The period of use of the state- owned or municipal or private land plot for agricultural needs (emphyteusis) and for construction (superficies) may not exceed 50 years. The fee for the use of a land plot concluded at the land auctions may not be reduced. Owners and users of land plots shall use the land plots in accordance with their intended purpose, where owners users of neighbouring land plots are caused the least inconvenience. Owners and users shall collaborate to ensure the enforcement of their land rights and the use of these plots with the introduction of advanced technologies for growing crops and land protection. Land plot owners have the right to demand from the owner of the neighbouring land plot to assist in establishing clear boundaries. Owners of neighbouring land plots may use boundary structures jointly by their mutual agreement. Trees standing on the border of adjacent land plots, as well as these trees' fruits shall belong to these land plots' owners in equal parts. Limits may be imposed on the use of a land plot or part thereof by the owner. Right of ownership may be encumbered by third parties' rights. Transfer of the ownership right of the land plot shall not terminate the established limitations and encumbrances. The requirement for the removal of trees (bushes) shall be excluded if they serve as boundary signs and cannot be replaced by other boundary signs. Limitations on the use of land plots (except for limitations directly established by law and regulatory acts adopted in accordance with them) shall be subject to state registration in the State Land Cadastre in the manner prescribed by the law. Information on limitations shall be indicated in land management schemes and feasibility studies of land use and protection. Controlled access zones shall be created around objects that are sources of harmful substances, odours, high noise levels, vibration, ultrasonic and electromagnetic waves, electronic fields, ionizing radiation, etc. Within controlled access zones, the construction of residential facilities, social infrastructure facilities and other facilities related to the permanent stay of people shall be prohibited. The legal regime of lands pertaining to the controlled access zone shall be determined by the legislation of Ukraine. The transfer of state-owned land plots into municipal ownership or vice versa shall be carried out based on decisions of relevant executive authorities or local governments disposing of the lands in state or municipal ownership according to powers specified in this Code. State-owned lands that cannot be transferred into Municipal ownership include land plots used by the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation on the territory of Ukraine. A citizen interested in privatisation of a land plot in their use shall submit an application to the relevant executive authority or local government. If the state-owned land plot is located outside settlements and is not part of a certain raion, the application shall be submitted to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Citizens interested in obtaining free ownership of land from state-owned or municipal lands for individual farming, personal peasant farming, gardening, construction and maintenance of a residential house, outbuildings and structures (homestead) shall apply to the relevant executive authority or local government. The application shall indicate the purpose of the land plot and its approximate size. Citizens who in good faith, transparently and continuously use the land plot for 15 years, but do not have documents proving that they have rights to this land plot, may apply to a state authority, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or a local government with a request to transfer to acquire the right to own or to use it. In case of refusal of the executive authority or local government to transfer the land plots into ownership, the issue shall be resolved in court. The transfer of a land plot to the ownership or use of citizens on the basis of the acquisitive prescription shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure established by this Code. Article 120. Transfer of the right to a land plots in case of acquiring right to residential house, building or structure. Citizens of Ukraine shall have the right to free transfer of land plots from state-owned or municipal lands in the following sizes. The size of a land plot transferred free of charge to a citizen due to the acquisition of ownership of a residential house may not be less than the maximum size of the land plot of the relevant purpose. The Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblast and raion councils shall transfer land plots into the ownership or use from the relevant lands of territorial community's common ownership. The central executive authority for land resources in the field of land relations and its territorial bodies shall transfer state-owned agricultural land plots, except for the cases specified in part eight of this Article. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall transfer land plots from state-owned lands into ownership or use in the cases specified in Article 149 of this Code. Land plots at the bottom of the territorial sea, as well as for the use of land plots of the exclusion zone and the zone of unconditional (compulsory) resettlement. An investor with significant investments can order the development of technical documentation on land management to establish the boundaries of such land plot in kind (on the ground) without permission of the executive authority or local government. A person interested in obtaining a land plot from state or municipal lands under a land management project for its allotment shall apply to obtain a permit. If an investor with significant investments applies for a permit to develop a land management project for the allocation of a land plot, a copy of the concluded special investment contract and documents confirming the powers of the authorised person shall be attached to the application. The relevant executive authority or local government within the scope of their powers during a month shall consider the application and give permission for the development. The conditions and terms for the development of land management projects for the allocation of land plots shall be determined by the contract concluded between the customer and the executor of these works in accordance with the standard contract. If the location of the object, the size and boundaries of the land plot proposed for withdrawal (redemption) and the conditions of withdrawal ( redemption) of this plot, have not changed, the project shall not be subject to approval. The relevant executive authority or local government shall adopt a decision whether to provide land plots into use. Land management projects on allocation of land plots of the exclusion zone and the zone of unconditional (compulsory) resettlement of the territory that has undergone radioactive contamination as a result of the Chernobyl disaster shall be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If the land plot is provided for use by the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the agreed land management project on allotment will be submitted. Land plots required for a public-private partnership, in particular a concession, shall be leased to a private partner, a concessionaire. If the land is provided for use by an investor with significant investments, with whom a special investment agreement is concluded, the agreed land management project for allotment of land plot will be submitted to the executive authority. The state-owned or municipal land plot formed by an executive body or local government may not be divided, privatised, transferred for use to a third party or otherwise alienated until the transfer of such land plot to the investor with significant investments with whom a special investment contract has been concluded. The restriction on the alienation ofsuch land plot by executive authorities or local governments in favour of third parties shall expire after 12 months from the date of its formation. State-owned or municipal land plots shall be leased by virtue of a decision of the relevant executive authority or local government. The right of ownership, use of the land plot shall be registered under the Law of Ukraine “On State  registration of Immovable Property Rights andEncumbrances” The condition of the contract renewal may not be provided for in the land lease contract, the contract on the establishment of a land easement, contracts on the granting of the right to use a land plot. The sale of state-owned or municipal land plots or the rights hereto (lease, superficies, emphyteusis) on a competitive basis in the form of an auction shall be carried out in the cases. Sale of state-owned and municipal land plots for the needs specified by this Code shall be carried out by local state administrations, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or local governments within the scope of their powers. Citizens and legal entities interested in acquiring land plots shall submit an application (petition) to the relevant executive authority. The price of a land plot with an area of more than 50 hectares for the placement of open sports, health and fitness facilities shall be determined by the standard monetary valuation specified in the technical documents. Settlements for the land plot acquisition may be contributed in instalments as the parties may agree, but not more than for five years. Sale of state-owned land plots, except for land plots comprising the objects to be privatised, to foreign states and foreign legal entities shall be carried out by state privatisation bodies in coordination with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Citizens of Ukraine permanently residing in the territory of the relevant local council, as well as relevant local governments shall have the pre-emptive right to purchase agricultural land plots. Citizens and legal entities of Ukraine have the right to acquire the right of ownership of land plots by virtue of exchange, lease, gift, inheritance and other civil law agreements. The conclusion of such agreements shall be carried out pursuant to the Civil Code of Ukraine, taking into account the requirements of this Code. State-owned or municipal land plots or the rights hereto (lease, superficies, emphyteusis) shall be sold in separate lots on a competitive basis (land auctions), except the cases established by part 2 of this article. The pledge of a part of the land plot (or the right to a parts of a land plot) will be carried out after its allocation in kind (on the ground) under the land management documentation. Land plots to citizens for haymaking and pasturing, for vegetable gardening. provision of land plots to business entities that implement investment projects registered under the Law of Ukraine “On Peculiarities of Investment Activity in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea’. construction, maintenance and repair of engineering, transport, energy infrastructure. The sale of private land plots or rights hereto (leases, superficies, emphyteusis) may be carried out at land auctions only on the initiative of land owners. The pre-emptive right of purchase may not be used at land auction. The executor of land auctions shall be an economic entity that has concluded a contract. Land auctions shall be carried out pursuant to the contract concluded between the land auction organiser and the land Auction executor. Financing of the organisation and holding of the land auctions is carried out by the organiser or the auction executor, including at the expense of the registration fees paid by the auction participants. The organiser of land auctions shall determine the list of state-owned or municipal land plots and/or rights hereto, which shall be placed for land auctions in separate lots. It is prohibited to add to the specified list the land plots designated for construction without taking into account the results of public discussion in the cases provided for by the law. The starting price of the sale of emphyteusis and superficies rights to the land plot cannot be lower than the market value of the respective right. The documents for each lot shall be executed by the land auction executor as a separate case and shall be transferred to the purchaser after the auction ends. Land auctions shall be held no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days after the announcement has been published. The information shall be placed on the official website of the central executive authority implementing state policy in the field of land relations. The technological and software tools necessary for the publication of the tender announcement should provide legal entities and individuals with the opportunity to view, copy and print information free of charge using common web browsers and editors. The land auction executor shall accept documents from participants and representatives of participants that are legal entities. Individuals who are not individual entrepreneurs shall submit a copy of the certificate for the assignment of the registration number of the taxpayer's account card. Foreign citizens and stateless persons shall provide their surname, name and patronymic, citizenship (political nationality) of another state. Individuals and legal entities established under the legislation of Ukraine shall provide information on the name, location, identification code under the Unified State Register of Enterprises and Organisations of Ukraine. Legal entities with a share of foreign capital in their authorised (joint) capital shall enter the information about the state, where foreign founders (participants) are registered or domiciled. Land auction shall begin with the auctioneer's announcement of the auction procedure. The lot shall be placed for auction in the presence of at least two registered participants. The auctioneer shall have the right to: verbally warn the participant or the invited person about the need to stop violations, but not more than once. During the auction, the participants shall announce their intention to purchase the lot at the price announced by the auctioneer. If the price offered by the participant exceeds the price of the lot, the participant shall announce the participant's number and their offer. The silence of the participant who first raised the number plate after the auctioneering's announcement of the price shall be interpreted as the participants' consent to the price. The auctioneer may at any time at its own discretion offer them to announce their price. Other participants may offer only a higher price than the announced price. If no higher price is offered within three minutes after three repetitions of the last price, the auctioneer shall finish the auction for the lot with a strike of an auction hammer (gong) The contract of sale, lease, superficies, emphyteusis of the land plot between the land auction organiser and the auction winner shall be concluded directly on the auction day. The right to a land plot acquired as a result of the auction shall be subject to state registration under the procedure established by the law. Land auction executor within seven banking days after the finish of auctions shall transfer the amount of guarantee payment paid to its account by the winner to the relevant accounts. If the auction winners are the persons specified in Article 129 of this Code, the contract of sale of non-agricultural land shall be concluded after obtaining consent of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The organiser may cancel the land auction before its start in case he or she receives the documents entailing the necessity to amend the land management and valuation documents for the land plot. The decision to recognise the auction as not having taken place shall be made by the land Auction executor on the day they are held. If the auction is cancelled, the auction organiser within ten days after the decision to cancel the auction shall compensate the land auctions executor. If the auction has not taken place or their results have been made null and void, the repeated auction may be held not earlier than in a month and not later than in six months from the date of the previous land auction. If the auction is recognised as not having taken place, based on the presence of only one participant and only the same participant is registered, he or she shall have the right to purchase the land plot. Grounds for termination of the right to use the land shall be as follows. Voluntary refusal from the right of ownership or right of permanent use of the land plot. Compulsory termination of land rights shall be subject to the consideration in court in the case of: a) use of land plot for purposes other than intended; b) termination of activity of religious organisations. Violations of the law (contamination of lands with radioactive and chemical substances, waste, sewage water, contamination of lands) can lead to confiscation of the land plot. In case of failure to eliminate the violation of land legislation within 30 days, the state inspector of agriculture, state inspector for environmental protection shall apply to the relevant executive authority or local government with a request to terminate the right to use the land plots. Land plots can be confiscated only by court decision in cases, to the extent and in the manner prescribed by the law. A person who obtains the right of ownership to the land plot and who is not entitled to acquire the right to land, shall have right to lease it. Redemption of land plots for public needs, which are owned by individuals and legal entities, shall be carried out in cases. Land plots provided for permanent use from state-owned and municipal lands may be withdrawn for public and other needs by decision of state authorities, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local governments. Withdrawal of land plots shall be carried out with the consent of land users. Kyiv and Sevastopol city state administrations shall confiscate state-owned land plots that are in permanent use within their territories for all needs, except for the cases specified in part 9 of this Article. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the territory of Crimea shall withdraw state- owned land plots. In case if the land user disagrees with the withdrawal, the issue shall be resolved in court. Approval of the materials pertaining to withdrawal (redemption) of land plots of especially valuable lands owned by citizens and legal entities shall be carried out by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on the proposal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblast, Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils. Legal entities interested in the purchase of land. plots for public needs or on grounds of public necessity, shall according to their powers coordinate the location, size of the land plot and conditions of its redemption. Legal entities interested in redemption of land plots shall apply to the relevant village, settlement, city, raion, oblast council, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and the local state administration. An application for approval of the object location at the expense of lands redeemed by the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine and the Verkhovna Rada of Crimea shall be submitted. The authorities referred to in the second and third paragraphs of this part shall, within ten days since the application has been received, submit to the relevant executive authority a conclusion on the coordination of the object location or a refusal of such coordination. If the purchase of land plots is carried out in coordination with the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, the relevant state authorities, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or local governments shall prepare their conclusions. The owner may not be deprived of the right of ownership to the land plot, except for the cases provided for by this Code and other laws of Ukraine. The former owner of a land plot redeemed for public needs, shall have the right to apply to the court for the recognition of the land redemption agreement as null and void. A) temporary occupation of agricultural lands, forest lands and shrubs for other purposes. b) establishment of restrictions on the use of land plots. c) deterioration of soil quality and other useful properties. d) reduction of lands to unusable condition. f) non-receipt of proceeds during the temporary non-use of the land plot. g) use of plots for the needs of the oil and gas industry. Land disputes shall be considered by the central executive authority implementing the state policies in the field of land relations and by local governments on the basis of an application of one of the parties. In case of disagreement of land owners or land users with the decision of local governments, the dispute shall be resolved in court. The parties to the land dispute have the right to read the materials on this dispute, make extracts from them. Land protection is a system of legal, organisational, economic and other measures aimed at rational land use. It includes protection from harmful anthropogenic impact, reproduction and increase of soil fertility, increase of forestry land use and special regime for the use of lands for environmental, health-improving, recreational and historical and cultural purposes. Reclamation of disturbed lands shall mean a set of organisational, technical and biotechnological measures aimed at restoring soil cover. Lands that have undergone changes in the structure of the relief, the ecological condition of soils and parent rocks, as well as in the hydrological regime shall be subject to reclamation. Technogenically contaminated lands include the radiation dangerous lands and radioactively contaminated lands, the lands contaminated with heavy metals, other chemical elements, etc. Degraded and unproductive lands include: a) land plots, the surface of which is disturbed as a result of earthquakes, landslides, karstification, floods, mining, etc.; b) land plot with eroded, waterlogged, chemically contaminated soils. The procedure for land conservation shall be established by the legislation of Ukraine. Conservation of lands shall be carried out by terminating their economic use for a specified period, as well as alkalisation or afforestation. The inclusion of land plots within the boundaries of raion, village, settlement, city, district shall not entail the termination of the right of ownership. Decisions on establishment and change of the boundaries of villages, settlements that are not part of the raion, shall be adopted by the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. National land use and protection programmes shall be developed under the programmes of economic, scientific, technical and social development. Land management is a set of socio-economic and environmental measures aimed at regulating land relations and rational organisation of the territory of administrative-territorial units, economic entities. The purpose of land management is to ensure the rational land use and protection, creating a favourable ecological environment and improving natural landscapes. Land management shall be carried out under the law. Land management works will be executed by economic entities executing the land management works in accordance with the law, at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine, the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local budgets, as well as citizens' and legal entities' funds. Land management schemes and feasibility studies for the use and protection of lands within the administrative-territorial units shall be approved by the central executive authority implementing state policies in the field of land relations. The land management scheme and feasibility study for theUse and Protection of the lands within a raion shall be approval by the raion council. In case of elaboration, such land management documents shall be additionally approved by corresponding village, settlement, city councils and raion state administration. 2. land management projects on establishment (change) of the boundaries of administrative-territorial units shall be approved by village, settlement, city, raion councils. 3. Land management projects for the organisation and establishment of the. boundaries of territories pertaining to the nature reserve fund and other environmental purposes, shall be subject to mandatory coordination. Land management projects for the organisation and establishment of the boundaries of territories pertaining to the nature reserve fund and other environmental purposes, health-improving, recreational, historical and cultural, forest fund, water fund lands and water protection zones, shall be approved by the customers. Land management projects providing for ecological and economic justification for crop rotation and agricultural lands engineering shall not be subject to coordination. Land management projects for landscaping of settlements shall be coordinated in accordance with the procedure established by Article 186-1 of this Code. Detailed land management projects shall be approved by the customers of such projects. Technical documents on land management on establishment of the boundaries of the land plot part subject to the right of sublease, easement, shall be agreed by the land owner and land user. Technical documents on land management regarding the division and assembly of land plots shall be approved by the customer. If the land plots are formed at the expense of state and municipal lands, their agricultural lands are determined, as well as if such plots are assigned to certain categories. Assignment of especially valuable lands, defined by clauses “a” and “b” of part one of Article 150 of this Code, to the lands of other categories shall be prohibited. The original of the relevant land management documents shall be submitted by the developer for approval to the territorial body of the central executive authority implementing state policies in the field of land relations. The Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Council of Ministers of theautonomous republic, other entities defined by this Article, when coordinating and approving land management papers, shall be prohibited to require additional materials and documents. Land management documents shall be carried out at the location of lands (land plots) by territorial bodies of central executive authorities formed in the raion, city of oblast, republican importance (Autonomous Republic of Crimea), Kyiv and Sevastopol. The land management project for the allocation of land plots of the exclusion zone and the zone of unconditional (compulsory) resettlement of the territory affected by the Chernobyl disaster shall be subject to mandatory approval by the central executive authority. Land plot located on territory or within object of nature reserve fund or within the shoreline protection belt, shall also be subject to coordination with the executive authority of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the field of environmental protection. Land plot located in exclusion zone or zone of unconditional (compulsory) resettlement of territory affected by radioactive contamination as a result of Chernobyl disaster. The developer shall submit for approval to the authority specified in part 1 of this article, the original land management project for allocation of the land plot. The bodies referred to in parts 1 to 3 of this Article shall provide or send by registered mail their conclusions of coordination or the refusal to coordinate. Each authority shall consider and approve the landmanagement project for the allocation of land independently and without regard to the project approval by other authorities. The bodies specified in parts 1–3 of this Article may refuse to coordinate a land management project for the allocation of a land plot only if the shortcomings highlighted in the previous conclusion have not been eliminated. Repeated refusal does not deprive the developer of the land Management Project of the right to eliminate the project shortcomings and submit it for coordination. Land monitoring system collects, processes, transmits, stores and analyses information on the condition of lands. State Land Cadastre is the only state geographic information system containing data on the lands located within the borders of Ukraine. The main purposes of land monitoring are to forecast the ecological and economic consequences of land degradation. Soil rating shall mean a comparative assessment of soil quality according to their main natural properties. Soils shall be rated according to 100-point scale. The highest point is given to soils with the best properties, which have the highest natural productivity. The economic valuation of lands shall be determined in conditional cadastral hectares or in monetary terms. The state registration of land plots shall be carried out in the State Land Cadastre under the procedure established by the Law. The quantitative land inventory shall mean the registration of information in the form of data and documents, characterising every land plot, as well as the lands by area and types of agricultural lands, division of lands between the land owners and users. Losses of agricultural lands (arable land, perennial plantations, fallow lands, hayfields, pastures), forest lands and shrubs as the main means of production in agriculture and forestry shall be subject to compensation. Losses incurred by restriction of the rights of land owners and land users, including lessees, or by deterioration of land quality. The implementation of internal construction by agricultural or forestry enterprises, organisations, institutions, as well as citizens shall be carried out without compensation. Use of funds received in order to compensate for losses of agricultural and forestry production shall be used for land development, improvement of the relevant lands, land protection and regulatory monetary land valuation. Citizens and legal entities shall bear civil, administrative or criminal responsibility under the law for the following violations. Agreements concluded in violation of the procedure for sale, lease, gift, pledge, exchange of land plots established by the law shall be declared invalid by a court decision. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within six months after the publication of this Code shall: a) prepare and submit for consideration to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine the offers on amendments to legislative acts arising from this Code. b) bring its regulations in line with this Code; c) develop regulatory acts provided for by this Code, including draft laws on land management. Decisions on the provision of land plots for use, as well as on the withdrawal (redemption) of lands, adopted by the relevant authorities, shall be enforced according to the requirements of this Code. State registration of such land plots shall be carried out on the basis of technical land management documents for the establishment (restoration) of the boundaries of the land plot in kind (on the ground) The right to conduct exploration works on land plots under permits obtained prior to the entry into force of this Code shall be retained. Citizens and legal entities that have received the right of ownership or temporary use - including on lease terms - of the land plots in the amounts provided by the previous legislation, shall retain the rights to these plots. Citizens who are owners of land shares (paiv) may allocate land plots in kind (on the ground) within a single area. For the period up to 1 January 2015, citizens and legal entities may acquire the right of ownership to agricultural land with a total area of up to 100 hectares. This area may be increased in case if the land plots are inherited under law. Citizens who are owners of land shares (paiv) at their request may be allocated in kind (on the ground) the land plots subject to the state acts on land ownership to be issued. For the period up to 1 January 2015, requirements of part 4 of Article 22 of this Code shall apply only to those owners and users who use agricultural land plots for commodity agricultural production with a total area of more than 100 hectares. To establish that if before 1 January 2013 the technical documents on land management regarding execution of documents certifying the right to the land plot were developed, the formation of land plot as an object of civil rights shall be carried out on the basis of such technical documents. To establish that from the date of entry into force of the Law of Ukraine “On Amending Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine regarding the Issue of Land Collective Ownership, Improving the Land Use Rules in Agricultural Land Areas, Preventing Raiding and Stimulating Irrigation in Ukraine” of collective agricultural lands.