This Law aims at creating a legal framework for protecting the rights and interests of clients of financial institutions, individual entrepreneurs who provide financial services. Financial institutions shall include banks, credit unions, pawnshops, leasing companies, trust companies, insurance companies, contributory pension institutions, investment funds and companies. Independent financial intermediaries providing financial guarantees services shall not be financial institutions. Laws regulating certain financial services markets may define other participants. Participants in the financial services market are entities that, pursuant to the law, have the right to provide financial services on the territory of Ukraine. Self-regulatory organisation is a non-profit association of financial institutions created to protect the interests of its members. A controller is an individual or legal entity for which no controllers - individuals - exist and who is able to exercise decisive influence on the management or activities of a legal entity. A non-bank financial group is a group of legal entities under a common controller (other than a bank), comprising two or more financial institutions, where financial institutions — other than aBank — conduct core business. A financial holding company is a legal entity whose core business is holding interest in legal entities’ authorised capital. The business of financial institutions is the core business of its subsidiaries and/or associated companies. The financial institutions' business is regarded as a core business if the arithmetic mean value of their assets for the last four reporting periods (quarters) constituted 80 or more percent of the total assets held by all subsidiaries and associates. The terms "collection company", "settlement of overdue debt" shall be used in this Law in the meanings given in the Law of Ukraine "On Consumer Lending" Article 2. 2. Scope of the Law: auxiliary services are ancillary and intermediary services; 29) intermediary services in the financial services markets are activities of legal entities or individual entrepreneurs. This law shall regulate relations that arise between participants of the financial services markets when performing provision of financial services. Financial institutions in Ukraine shall operate in accordance with this Law. The provisions of this law shall not apply to: activities of financial institutions with the status of intergovernmental international organisations in Ukraine; activities of the State Treasury of Ukraine and state trust funds. Financial services, provision of which is stipulated by other laws, shall be included in the list specified in part one of this Article. Provision of financial services not included in this list shall be prohibited. Activities of a telecommunication operator on public charitable fundraising from subscribers via charitable telecommunication messages shall not be considered financial services. Financial services shall be provided by business entities on a basis of an agreement. Unless otherwise provided by law, the agreement must contain: 1) title of the document; 2) name, address and details of the business entity; 3) information about the client - recipient of the financial service. A financial services agreement (other than the agreement the subject matter of which is a currency trading service or a money transfer service) shall only be executed in writing. When entering into the agreement, the client shall have the right to require the business entity to provide a balance sheet or certificate of financial position. The public part of the financial services agreement shall be made public and accessible for perusal by clients on the financial service provider’s own website. The individual part of. the agreement should be concluded with the client in writing (in. a paper or electronic form) with the compulsory indication in such agreement. of the conditions provided by part one of this Article. The burden of proving that a copy of the agreement (amendments to the agreement) has been sent to the client shall rest with theFinancial services provider. Any proposals from the financial services provider to the client concerning material amendments to the terms and conditions of the financial service agreement shall be made by means of a notice. Laws on certain types of financial services may establish a different procedure for concluding an agreement between a financial service provider and its client. Financial institutions shall not be allowed to unilaterally increase the interest rate. Financial institutions may be established in any institutional and legal form, provided that the laws governing certain markets for financial services shall not contain special rules and restrictions. The minimum capital required for the incorporation of the financial institutions and the general requirements for regulatory capital for their operation shall be determined by the laws of Ukraine on the regulation of certain financial services markets. A legal or natural person intending to acquire the significant holding in the financial institution (other than a corporate investment fund) must obtain the written consent of the authority exercising state regulation of financial services markets. In order to obtain such approval, the relevant legal ornatural person (applicant) shall submit to the authority. 6) the bodies of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine prohibit concentration as such, which leads to monopolisation or significant restriction of competition. 7) the acquisition or significant holding increase of the applicant in the financial institution will threaten the interests of depositors and/or other creditors of such financial institution. The authorities exercising state regulation of financial services markets shall have the right to send inquiries to state bodies, local self-government bodies, legal entities and individuals. A senior executive or employee of the financial institution may not take part in the preparation and decision-making in favour of the institution where they, their close relatives or the enterprise they own have business interests. Advertising of financial services that does not contain information on the provision of services is considered to be unfair under the Law of Ukraine “On Advertising” The list of features indicating that the way to present information about financial services hampers its visual perception shall be defined by the authority carrying out state regulation of the relevant financial services market. The law requires financial institutions to disclose details of their senior executives and interests. It also requires them to inform the client of fees, charges and other expenses to be paid by the client, including taxes, or if a specific amount cannot be determined – the procedure for determining such costs. The law also gives the client the right to withdraw from the financial services agreement. No payments, damages, or penalties may be imposed on the consumer for exercising the right of withdrawal from the agreement. The information provided to the client must provide correct understanding of the financial service essence without imposing its purchase. When furnishing the client with the information, the financial institution shall be required to comply with the requirements of consumer protection legislation. Financial institutions must also disclose the following information about financial institutions by posting free of charge in a publicly accessible database. Financial institutions shall ensure the availability of information posted on their own websites (web pages) in accordance with part four of this Article for at least the last three years. The corporate governance report must contain information on objectives of the financial institution activities. 11) the results of the internal audit (control) system functioning during the year, as well as the data specified in the notes to the financial and consolidated financial statements in accordance with the provisions (standards) of accounting. 14) transactions with related parties, including those within the scope of one industrial and financial group or other association. 15) recommendations of authorities exercising state regulation of financial services markets on the audit report. The financial institution shall be required to keep records of its operations and provide reports in accordance with the requirements of laws and regulatory acts of the authorities exercising regulation of the financial services markets. The entry into the Unified State Register of Legal Entities, Individual Entrepreneurs and Public Organisations of Ukraine of the record on state registration of the liquidation of a legal entity that is the financial institution will be made on the basis of an extract on its exclusion. The legal status, types, procedure of establishment, legal status of functioning and termination of activities of associations shall be determined in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. Financial institutions shall have the right to voluntarily unite their activities, if this does not contradict the antimonopoly legislation of Ukraine and the requirements of laws on the regulation of certain financial services markets. The financial group, its subgroups, group members shall be obliged to meet the requirements established by the authorities exercising the state regulation of financial services markets. Non-banking financial institutions supervised by the National Securities and Stock Market Commission and which are members of banking or non-bank financial groups supervised by National Bank of Ukraine shall be subject to supervision. The legal entity or individual intending to become a controller of a financial group, through the authorised person determined by them, shall be obliged to inform the authority exercising the state regulation of financial services markets. The financial group member, no later than 10 calendar days after changing its ownership structure and types of activities, must inform the person in charge of the financial group. When delivering (providing) financial services, financial institutions shall be prohibited from entering into contractual agreements with anonymous persons. The authorities exercising the state regulation of financial services markets shall have the right to require from legal entities applying for inclusion in the relevant state registers of financial institutions. Applicants must provide information on the ultimate beneficial owners (controllers) of the applicants and on the chairperson and members of the supervisory and executive body. State regulation of activities for the financial services provision shall be carried out by: 1) maintaining state registers of financial institutions and registers of entities that are not financial institutions. 2) legal regulation of the financial institutions activities. 3) supervision of the activities of participants in financial services markets (except for clients) 4) use of enforcement actions by the authorities exercising state regulation. The National Bank of Ukraine and National Securities and Stock Market Commission shall be obliged to cooperate in accordance with the provisions of this Law. The head of the authority exercising state regulation of financial services markets, or a person authorised by him, shall participate in the work of another body. The National Bank of Ukraine and the National Securities and Stock Market Commission, that supervise on the consolidated basis over financial groups, shall be obliged to exchange information regarding the members of these groups in the order determined by them. The authorities exercising the state regulation of financial services markets. The National Bank of Ukraine in the field of state regulation of non-banking financial services markets within the scope of the competencies defined in part one of Article 21 of this Law. Article 28. Implementation of internationally recognised rules for the development of financial service markets. The National Bank will develop and approve regulatory legal acts that are binding on central and local executive authorities, local self-government bodies, participants in financial services Markets. 8-1) supervise (control) compliance non-banking financial institutions and entities that have the right to provide certain financial services, with the conditions for the provision of financial services. 9) conduct independently or together with other state bodies the audit of the activities of participants in financial services markets (except for clients) National Bank of Ukraine exercising supervision over activities in the markets of non-banking financial services. Supervision to be guided by the principles of legality, proportionality of regulatory requirements and transparency of the supervision process. National Bank to publish information on planning and results of supervisory activities on official website. The National Bank of Ukraine, within the scope of its powers, shall supervise the activities in the markets of non-banking financial services in the form of remote supervision and inspections in accordance with this Law and the regulatory legal acts. The major directions of the National Bank. of Ukraine supervision in the field of state regulation of non.bankingFinancial services markets shall be the regular assessment of the general financial. condition of the non-bank financial institution, the results of its activities and the quality of corporate governance. The National Bank of Ukraine shall have the right to conduct scheduled and unscheduled inspections of the activities of participants in financial services markets. Non-banking financial institutions and other entities that are not financial institutions, but have theright to provide separate financial services, shall be required to provide relevant information and copies of the documents. The period for conducting the scheduled inspection cannot exceed 30 working days, and for micro and small businesses – ten working days. The grounds for the unscheduled inspection shall be: identification of information in documents submitted to the National Bank of Ukraine in accordance with the law. Unscheduled inspections may be conducted on other grounds directly provided by law. The National Bank of Ukraine may investigate data of the financial institution customer only for the purpose of performing supervision tasks. Unauthorised disclosure of information with limited access shall entail liability in accordance with the laws, except for cases when such disclosure is necessary to prevent money laundering or regulatory authorities to ensure control over taxpayers' compliance with tax and currency legislation. The National Bank of Ukraine shall cooperate with the international organisations, state bodies and non-governmental organisations of foreign states on matters falling within the scope of its competencies. The Bank shall have the right to submit and receive: information on the supervision of financial markets and institutions, which does not constitute information with limited access, on condition of reciprocity. The application for a licence must contain information about the identity of the applicant (name, location, bank details, identification code) The application to obtain the licence shall be accompanied with documents, an exhaustive list and requirements for the content of which are established by laws on the regulation of certain financial services markets. The application for licence and the documents attached to it shall be accepted according to the inventory. The National Bank shall have the right to require the applicant to provide additional information or documents to clarify the information contained in the submitted documents, indicating the justification for the need of such information/documents. The National Bank of Ukraine shall have the right to extend the period for consideration of the application for licence and documents attached to the application, but no more than 30 working days. The decision to refuse to issue the licence shall indicate the grounds for the refusal. In case of refusal to issue licence on the basis of revealing inaccurate data in the documents submitted by the applicant for the issuance of the licence, the economic entity may submit a new application for the licence. The licence shall come into force from the day the National Bank of Ukraine makes an entry in the relevant register. Activities related to the provision of financial services on the basis of the licence shall be conducted in the entire territory of Ukraine. Grounds for Revocation (Cancellation) of Licence on Activities to Provide Financial Services include repeated violation of licence conditions. 8) identification of the fact (facts) of conducting risky activities that threaten the interests of depositors and/or other creditors of such institution (entity) 9) failure to conduct any financial service within a year from the date of obtaining the licence by the non-banking financial institution. 10) systematic violation of legislation in the field of preventing and combating money laundering. Non-banking financial institution or entity that is not the financial institution, but has the right to provide certain financial services. 14) failure to provide the availability of minimum capital / equity (authorised and/or additional) capital in the amount provided for by the legislation of Ukraine. 15) non-disclosure (incomplete disclosure) / non-confirmation (in complete confirmation) of information on the sources of origin of funds. 16) identification of two or more violations of the requirements of the National Bank of Ukraine regulatory legal acts. The National Bank of Ukraine shall apply penalties within its powers in the field of state regulation of markets for non-banking financial services to participants in the markets. Penalties include fines in the amount of 1000 to 10,000 tax-exempt minimums of the citizen income. If the violation and its consequences are eliminated by the violator on his own prior to the application of enforcement actions, except for the cases provided for in Article 41 of this Law, the National Bank  shall not apply enforcement actions for such violation. National Bank of Ukraine's decision on the application of enforcement actions to participants in the markets of non-banking financial services in the form of a fine shall come into force on the day following the day when such decision is made. If the decision was appealed in court within a month from the date of entry into force and the administrative court opened proceedings on the case of appealing against this decision, such decision shall acquire the status of the executive document. The authorities exercising the state regulation of financial services markets shall apply penalties to financial institutions, other business entities providing financial services, and persons providing intermediary services. The penalties include fines in the amount of 300 to 600 tax-exempt minimums of the citizen income for each case of such violations. Fines prescribed by Article 41 of this Law shall be imposed by the Governor of the National Bank of Ukraine and other authorised officials. The decision to impose a fine shall be formalised by a resolution that is sent to the participant in the financial services markets. The seizure of documents confirming the fact of the offence shall be carried out for no more than three working days. The National Bank of Ukraine has the right to appoint a provisional administration of financial institution. Officials who violate the legislation on the implementation of activities for the provision of financial services shall be subject to criminal liability. The term of office of the provisional administration cannot exceed one year from the date of its appointment. The National Bank of Ukraine shall have the right to remove the provisional administrator from the performance of duties at any time in the event, his activities do not comply with the requirements established by this Law. Remuneration for the work of a temporary administrator and specialists engaged by him/her shall be conducted at the expense of the financial institution. The National Bank of Ukraine shall be obliged to ensure that there is no conflict of interest before appointing the provisional administrator. Damage caused as a result of provisional administrator professional error shall be reimbursed in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine and insurance contracts. The provisional administrator shall not have the right to conduct activities in the presence of the conflict of interests. The laws of Ukraine and other regulatory legal acts shall be applied in the part that does not contradict this Law, unless otherwise provided by this Law. Financial institutions created prior to the entry into force of this Law shall bring their activities in accordance with this Law within one year from the date of the introduction of the State Register of Financial Institutions.