This Law defines legal and organisational principles of permit activities in the field of nuclear energy use, as well as general provisions for regulating social relations that arise during its implementation. Permitting activity is aimed at protecting national security interests, preventing the exceeding of permissible levels of human exposure and environmental pollution. It also aims to comply with the requirements of the non-proliferation regime. Life cycle of nuclear facility or radioactive waste storage facility – a set of interrelated processes of gradual changes in the state of the nuclear facility. Life cycle stages of a nuclear facility – site selection, designing, construction, commissioning, operation, decommissioning; life cycle of a radioactive wastestorage facility. 9) licensee – a process owner in the field of nuclear energy use which has obtained a licence. The main purposes of this Law are as follows: legal regulation of relations during the performance of permitting activities in the field of nuclear energy use; establishment of a legal regime for permitting activities. The object of the law is to ensure the use of only those nuclear facilities, ionising radiation sources, facilities intended for radioactive waste management, uranium facilities. Permitting activity is an integral part of state regulation in the field of nuclear energy use. The ability to provide physical security of nuclear facilities, nuclear materials, radioactive waste, other ionising radiation sources, accounting and control of nuclear materials shall be a prerequisite for issuing business entities the permitting documents. Safety requirements and conditions (licence conditions) for performing activities shall be approved by the state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety. The following activities are subject to compulsory licensing in the field of nuclear energy use: mining, processing of uranium ores and transportation of radioactive materials. Activities related to the use of ionising radiation sources that meet the criteria established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall be exempted from licensing. The licence conditions to perform activities at a particular stage of the life cycle which the operating organisation obtains shall determine the types of works or operations. At the stages of construction, commissioning, operation and decommissioning of a nuclear facility, only if separate written permission is available issued by the state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety. The conditions and a procedure for issuing such permits shall be determined. The state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety shall license the activity in the field of nuclear energy use subject to licensing under this Law. The application for a license shall indicate the boundaries of the site where the nuclear facility or radioactive waste storage facility is located. The amount of charges for conducting permitting procedures and the procedure for its collection shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. State expert review on nuclear and radiation safety and the applicant inspection. Verification of completeness and accuracy of the data contained in the submitted documents. Inspection of the applicant if he carries out activities at the stages of construction and commissioning, operation and decommissioning of the nuclear facility. A decision to refuse a licence issuing may be appealed by the applicant in court. The state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety shall make an order for the production of licence forms in the field of nuclear energy use. A procedure for accounting, storage of the licence forms and keeping of relevant reporting shall be established. The licence is for a period of not less than three years. During the period of licence validity, the state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety may make changes to it or reissue the licence. The licence validity shall be set: to perform activities at certain stages of the life cycle of nuclear facilities and radioactive waste storage facilities. The licence is subject to re-issuance in case of: reorganisation of a licensee, except for the transformation of the joint-stock company into another business company. The period of reissued licence validity shall not exceed the period of validity for which the licence to be reissued was issued. A licence for performing certain activities in the field of nuclear energy use may be suspended. A licence for the performance of activity at the stages of construction and commissioning of the nuclear facility (prior to loading of nuclear materials into a nuclear facility) or construction of radioactive waste storage facility may be revoked by the state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety that issued them. In case of loss or damage of the license, the state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety may issue a duplicate licence. Decision to suspend or revoke a licence may be appealed by a licensee in court. Process owners in the field of nuclear energy use shall have the right to receive information on review status. The process owners in the field of nuclear energy use shall be liable for. performance of activities in theField of nuclear Energy use. Non-fulfilment or improper fulfilment of the conditions of a licence and/or other permitting document shall lead to a penalty in the amount of one to one hundred thousand tax-exempt minimum incomes. The funds received from the penalty recovery shall be credited to the State Budget of Ukraine. Permits for activity in the field of nuclear energy use which were in force in Ukraine before the adoption of this Law, shall expire no later than three years after the entry of the Law into force. During the mentioned period, the legal entities and individuals engaged in the activity ofnuclear energy use shall reissue permits following the requirements of this law. The operating organisation ( operator) shall periodically, according to norms, regulations and standards on nuclear and radiation safety, reassess the safety of nuclear facility or radioactive waste storage facility. Safety reassessment shall also be made on the request of the state regulatory body for nuclear and Radiation safety in case of significant changes in the design.