This Law defines the principles of organisation and implementation of cargo transit by air, road, rail, sea and river transport across the territory of Ukraine. It does not apply to the transit of mail, baggage, weapons, narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, hazardous waste or dual-use goods. The transit of cargos is carried out by the appropriate road, rail, water and air routes through checkpoints on the state border of Ukraine determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Cargos in transit are dry bulk, liquid bulk, solid bulk, break-bulk, general cargo, and cargo-luggage accepted for carriage under an agreement (contract) The transit of cargos shall be accompanied by a consignment note in the international language. Depending on the means of transport chosen, such a Consignment note may be an air waybill, an international road consignment Note (CMR), an SMGS consignmentNote, a CIM consignmentnote, and a bill of lading. In case of cargo transit within one checkpoint, the customs cargo declaration shall not be submitted. For goods (except excisable ones) that are transited by sea and river transport in containers and remain within the same checkpoint or customs control zone of a seaport during storage, a customs cargo Declaration will not be required. Transit services (works) are intended for consumption and use outside the customs territory of Ukraine. They are provided (performed) under appropriate bilateral or multilateral agreements (contracts) between the parties to transit operation. Officials of designated executive authorities exercising control of cargos in transit are forbidden from demanding other documents on cargo transit from the parties. Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine identifies measures to improve this control in accordance with international standards. The main tasks of coordination include ensuring interaction between parties to transit operation for the purpose of cargo transit continuity and elimination of downtimes and delays of transit means of transport. Ukraine's accession to the International Convention on the Harmonisation of Frontier Controls of Goods signed in Geneva in 1982.