The purpose of this Law is to regulate the peculiarities of legal relations during further operation and pre-schedule decommissioning of Chornobyl NPP units. It also regulates the transformation of the ruined fourth power unit of this NPP into an environmentally safe system. The effect of the Law extends to the activities related to the further operation, decommissioning of Chornobyl NPP power units, the transformation of the Shelter Object into an environmentally safe system and the provision of social protection for NPP personnel. The aim is to remove nuclear fuel containing materials and radioactive waste from it before transferring them to a controlled state. Funds for the preparation for and decommissioning of Chornobyl NPP power units and the transformation of the Shelter Object into an environmentally safe system shall be provided from the State Budget of Ukraine. The funds provided by Part 1 of this Article shall be credited to a separate account. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall determine the administrator of these funds unless otherwise provided by effective international agreements. The State shall provide employees of Chornobyl NPP who entered a job before 15 December 2000 and retire from employment due to pre-schedule decommissioning with additional guarantees. Financing of expenditures for compensations and guarantees indicated in paragraphs “a’, “b”, ‘c’,. “d”,. part two of this Article shall be provided using the funds of the State Budget of Ukraine. Financial assistance during occupational training, retraining or advanced training shall be provided in the amount of unemployment benefits at the beginning of training and shall not be subject to reduction. To ensure nuclear safety and retain qualified personnel in Ukraine, the employees of shutdown power units, as well as employees of the Shelter Object, for the period of Chornobyl NPP decommissioning, a salary shall be set no lower than the average salary of relevant professions. The State Budget of Ukraine for the second quarter of 2001 allocates funds specifically for the purpose of financing in full the activities related to decommissioning of Chornobyl NPP power units 1, 2 and 3. The budget also provides for expenditures in regard to Ukrainian contribution to international projects in the amount of at least UAH 325 million.