This Law is aimed at ensuring the attraction and efficient allocation of financial resources by the investors. It defines the legal and organisational basis for the establishment, operation and termination of collective investment entities. It sets out the requirements for the composition, structure and storage of such assets, the particularities of issuance, circulation, accounting and redemption of securities. 7) investment declaration shall mean a document defining the main directions and restrictions of investment activities of the collective investment institution. 8) investment certificate shall mean security issued by a unit fund asset management company (hereinafter referred to as the "unit fund") 9) index basket shall mean the aggregate of securities in the corresponding ratios, under which the stock exchange index is calculated.  collective investment funds shall mean funds contributed by the founders of the corporate fund, funds and in cases provided for by this Law. The legislation on joint-stock companies shall not apply to the regulation of the activities of corporate funds. Family members of an individual shall be considered to be his or her spouse, direct relatives (children or parents) of an individuals, as well as the spouse of any direct relative of anindividual. A participant of the collective investment institution shall mean a person being a securities holder. State or territorial community, as well as legal entities with more than 25 percent of the state or communal ownership, may not be participants in the collective Investment Institution. An individual may be a participant in a venture capital fund if the securities thereof are purchased in an amount equal to or greater than 1,500 times the monthly minimum wage. The Register shall be maintained by the Commission. Officials of the corporate fund, asset management company of the collective investment institution may not be members of the Parliament of Ukraine. Persons with an outstanding or unsettled criminal record for criminal offences against property, offences in the area of official or economic activity, or those committed more than three administrative offences on the stock market. The Commission may not refuse to register the rules or to enter information on the collective investment institution in the Register or to register amendments to the rules. Collective investment activities shall be carried out after the collective. investment institution is entered into the Register and the Certificate of Entry into the. Register is obtained. A fixed-term collective investment. institution shall be established for a fixed period, as specified in its rules. In the event of an extension of the operating term of the fixed-term collective investment institution, the participants must redeem the securities of such institution. Such redemption shall be made at the estimated value on the date of the resolution to extend the term. The number of securities to be redeemed from a participant may not exceed the number of Securities he held on the day of the mentioned resolution. The collective investment institution shall be regarded qualified if it invests only in one of the asset qualification classes and funds. The collective stock exchange institutions may be regarded the open specialised collective investment institutions classes referred to in clauses 5 and 6 of part five of this article. Non-diversified closed collective investment. institution, which carries out exclusively private placement of its securities among legal entities and individuals shall be. regarded a venture fund. A corporate fund shall be a legal entity established in the form of a joint-stock company and carrying out exclusively collective investment activities. The corporate fund and its bodies may not be subject to any sanctions restricting their rights in the event of unlawful actions by its participants. The state or territorial community shall not be liable for the liabilities of the corporate fund. A corporate fund may not be established by a legal entity with a state or communal share in their authorised capital of more than 25 per cent. It shall be hereby prohibited to merge, divide, spin-off, access or transform a corporate fund. No other legal entity may access to a Corporate Fund. A resolution on the establishment of a corporate fund, approval of its draft charter and resolution on private placement of shares is adopted by the Meeting of Founders. Any breach of the establishment phases of the corporate fund shall be regarded a ground for the Commission to refuse issuing a certificate on the registration of the share issue. The founding meeting of a corporate fund shall be held within three months of the date of full payment for the shares of the corporate fund by the founders. If the Commission refuses to issue a certificate on the registration of the share issue, all funds raised must be returned to the participants. The charter of a corporate fund should contain information on: 1) Full name of the corporate fund in Ukrainian; 2) Type of corporate fund (open, interval, closed) 3) Kind of corporate Fund (diversified, non-diversifying, specialised, qualified) 4) Investment fund class if the corporate Fund is specialised or qualified. 5. Collective investment as an exclusive activity of the Corporate Fund. The name of the corporate fund in its charter must include the words "corporate investment fund" and its belonging to a stock exchange or venture capital fund. The authorised capital of a corporate fund shall constitute no less than 1250 times the minimum monthly wage established by law on the registration date of the fund as a legal entity. The procedure for increasing (reducing) the authorised capital of a corporate fund shall be established by the Commission. The general meeting and the supervisory board shall be the bodies of the corporate fund. All other general meetings, except for annual meetings, shall be considered to be extraordinary. The general meeting may decide on any activities of the corporate fund. The general meetings shall be held at the expense of the Corporate Fund. The documented costs of their arrangement, preparation and conduct shall be reimbursed. The resolution on the election (replacement) of an asset management company and entering into an agreement with it may be adopted. The supervisory board of a corporate fund may not be granted with the powers to decide matters falling within the exclusive competence of the general meeting. The general meeting may be attended by persons included in the list of participants of the corporate fund or their representatives, regardless of whether they hold shares in such a fund. The right of a participant of a Corporate Fund to participate in the General Meeting shall not be restricted. The notice on holding the general meeting of the corporate fund of the Commission should contain the following information: Full name and location. Date, time and venue (indicating the room, office or hall to which the participants of the. corporate fund are to arrive) of the meeting. The redemption and placement of shares of the open or interval corporate fund shall cease on the day of publication. The general meeting of the participants of the corporate fund shall be held in the territory of Ukraine. The agenda of the general meeting shall be approved by the supervisory board. Proposals to the agenda shall be submitted in writing, indicating the name, first name, patronymic (name) of the participant making it. The agenda of the general meeting shall be amended only by the inclusion of new items and draft resolutions on proposed items. Proposals by the participants (participant) of the corporate fund collectively owning 5 per cent or more of the shares of the Corporate Fund shall be mandatory included in the agenda. The corporate fund shall inform its participants of any changes to the agenda in a manner prescribed by the charter. An appeal, filed to the court by the. participant of the corporate fund, against the resolution by the supervisory board of the. corporate fund to refuse to include its proposals in the agenda, shall not cause the. suspension of the general meeting. The court may, on the basis of the outcome of the consideration of a case, decide on the corporate. fund’s obligation to hold the general. meeting. The registration of participants of the corporate fund (their representatives) shall be carried out by the registration commission, which is appointed by the supervisory board. The venue of the general meeting should be properly equipped and provide for free access and expression of will of the participants. The registration commission shall have the right to refuse registration to the participant. One share of the corporate fund shall give to its holder one voice to decide on every matter at the general meeting, apart from any cases of cumulative vote. The Commission may appoint its representatives to supervise the registration of participants and the process of voting and declaring its results. If several representatives of the participant of the Corporate Fund appear to participate, the representative whose power of attorney was issued later shall be registered. The participant of the corporate fund may not be deprived of the right to vote. Members of the supervisory board shall be elected by a cumulative vote, i.e. by a vote multiplied by the number of members of the Supervisory Board, elected members. A cumulative voting shall be held on all candidates simultaneously. If the agenda of the general meeting contains several items, a separate ballot shall be completed for each item. 1) Full name of the corporate fund; 2) Date and time of holding the general meeting; 3) Item put to the vote and the draft resolution thereon; 4) Voting options for each draft resolution ("In favour", "Against", "Abstained") /5) Clause that the bullet must be signed by the participant (representative of the participant) of the corporation. A cumulative ballot shall be declared invalid if a participant (representative of a participant) of a corporate fund has indicated on the ballot a higher number of votes than he holds. The results of any vote shall be announced at the general meeting, during which such vote was held. The minutes of the cumulative voting results shall indicate: 1) Date of voting; 2) Item to be voted on; 3) Resolution. The minutes of the general meeting shall be drawn up within 10 working days of the closure of the meeting. The ballots shall be sealed and kept in the corporate fund within the whole term of its operation. The extraordinary general meeting can be convened by the Supervisory Board at its own discretion. The request to convene an extraordinary general meeting shall be submitted in writing to the place where the corporate fund is located. The request should also contain information on the number of shares held by the participants. The supervisory board may not amend the agenda of the general meeting except to include new items or draft resolutions. If the supervisory board does not pass a resolution to convene an extraordinary general meeting within the period specified in part two of this Article, such a meeting may be convened by the participants of the corporate fund, requesting it. If the general meeting is convened, a notice thereof and other material shall be sent to all participants. The resolution to hold a general meeting by polling method shall be adopted by thesupervisory board. The resolution to hold the general meeting by polling method must be published in the official printed media of the Commission at least 20 working days before the set date of completion of the receipt of the ballots by the corporate fund. In the event that the shares of a corporate fund are in circulation on the stock exchange, the resolution must be sent to the relevant stock exchange. The ballot to vote by polling Method (other than a cumulative ballot) shall contain: 1) Full name of the corporate. fund; 2) Date on which the list of participants of the. corporate fund entitled to participate in the general Meeting by polling. method was compiled. The ballot to vote by polling method shall be signed by the chairperson of the supervisory board of the corporate fund. 7) Clause specifying that the signature on the ballot of the authorised person must be affixed with the seal of such legal entity and must be certified in accordance with the procedure established by law. 8) Clause specify that if the signature is not certified the ballot shall be considered invalid. The votes of the participants of the corporate fund shall be counted by the counting commission consisting of one representative of the asset management company and a custodian. The minutes of the voting results by polling method shall be drawn up no later than five working days from the date on which the Corporate Fund receives the voting ballot. The Commission may control the counting of votes of participants in accordance with its established procedure. Where a corporate fund is composed of one person, the provisions of Articles 19 to 31 hereof concerning the procedure for convening and holding the general meeting shall not apply to such a fund. The powers of the supervisory board provided for in Article 34 hereof, as well as the internal documents of the corporate fund, shall be exercised by the participant of the Corporate Fund alone. Election of the members of the supervisory board. Adoption of the agenda of the general meeting. Approval of amendments to the prospectus for issue of shares of the corporate fund. Determination of the date on which the list of persons entitled to receive dividends to be established. The chairperson of the supervisory board of the corporate fund shall be elected by the members of the board from among them by a simple majority of votes. The board may at any time re-elect the chairperson. The chairperson shall organise its work, convene and preside over meetings, and exercise other powers provided for in the charter. The supervisory board shall be entitled to the meeting if at least half of its members participate. The charter may establish a larger number of members of the board, which is necessary for the recognition of its meetings as competent. The minutes of the meeting of the supervisoryBoard shall be executed not later than five working days after the meeting. The charter of the corporate fund may provide additional grounds for terminating the powers of a member of the supervisory board. Voluntary liquidation of the Corporate Fund shall be carried out by resolution of the general meeting of the participants. The corporate fund shall be liquidated on a mandatory basis if the value of its assets is lower than the minimum authorised capital. Liquidation of a fixed-term corporate fund before the expiry of the term set forth by the rules shall be possible subject to the consent of all its participants. Liquidation on the grounds stipulated by this part shall be carried out by the resolution of the general meeting of the participants of the corporate fund. The placement and circulation of shares of such fund shall be prohibited. 7) Establishment by the liquidation commission of a liquidation balance sheet. 8) Submission of documents to the Commission to cancel the registration of the issue of shares of the corporate fund. 9) submission of documents for the cancellation of the register of the rules, the certificate of entry in the Register and the deletion of information about the corporate Fund from the Register. Payments to the participants of the corporate fund in the liquidation may be made with assets other than funds of the Corporate Fund. The distribution of such assets among the participants will be proportionate to the number of shares held by them in the procedure approved by the general meeting of the participants. A unit fund is not a legal entity and cannot have an official. The unit fund shall be established by an asset management company. The establishment of a unit fund other than as provided for in part two of this Article shall be prohibited. The issuer of the unit fund investment certificates shall be the asset Management company of such fund. The unit fund will be deemed established on the date the information thereon is entered in the Register. The assets of the unit fund, including immovable property, securities and deposits, shall be duly registered in the name of the asset management company with obligatory indication of the details of such fund. The rules shall contain: The procedure for determining the value of net assets and the price of investment certificates placement (redemption) The asset management company of the unit fund shall resolve on its liquidation if: 1) The asset value is less than the minimum amount of asset and is not increased within six months; 2) Operating term of unit fund is expired (for a fixed-term unit fund); 3) The prospectus for issue of investment certificates is not registered within one year of the date on which unit fund was entered in the Register; 4) Within one month after the expiry of the agreement with the custodian of the units assets, the agreement is not be extended. In the process of liquidating the unit fund, its assets shall be disposed of in accordance with the terms established by the Commission. The funds obtained as results of the disposition shall be distributed by the following priority: Payments are made to the participants of the units fund who applied to redeem investment certificates of the fund prior to the resolution to liquidate. The assets of the collective investment institution may consist of securities, funds, including those in foreign currency, banking metals and other assets provided for by law. The value of immovable property and securities not permitted to be traded on the stock exchange may not amount to more than 50 per cent of the total value of the assets. This restriction shall not apply to venture funds. The value of securities not permitted to be traded on the stock exchange may not amount to more than 50 per cent of the total value of the assets of a diversified collective investment institution. The venture fund assets may include debt obligations, promissory notes, bonds, agreements on the assignment of claims, loan agreements and otherwise not prohibited by laws. The structure of the assets of the specialised money market funds must simultaneously meet the following requirements. Total value of local and enterprise bonds may not exceed 30 per cent of the total value of the fund’s assets. Total liabilities of one bank must not exceed 25 per cent. The value of state bonds of Ukraine may not exceed 35 per cent of the total value of the assets of the fund. The assets of a specialised bond fund may include: Funds in the national and foreign currency; Deposits; Savings (deposit) certificates; Enterprise bonds; Bonds of foreign issuers. The assets of a specialised shares fund may include: 1) Funds in the national and foreign currency; 2) Deposits in theNational and Foreign Currency; 3) Savings (deposit) certificates; 4) Shares of the joint-stock companies; 5) Shares. of foreign issuers and securities of foreign exchange funds in circulation on the foreign stock exchanges. The assets of a specialised banking metal fund may include: Funds in the national and foreign currency. Total liabilities of one bank may not exceed 25 per cent of the total assets of the fund. The list of banking metals and the procedure for determining their market value shall be established by the National Bank of Ukraine. The requirements to the asset structure of the unit fund established hereby shall apply six months after the date of registration of the prospectus for issue of the investment certificates of such fund. The assets of a collective investment institution may include foreign currency, including that acquired through banks licensed to do so. The requirements of clauses 2, 3, 5-9 shall not apply to the venture funds. The value of net assets shall be determined by the asset management company in accordance with the regulative acts and rules of the Commission. The securities of the collective investment institution may only be registered. The shares of the corporate fund shall be only common and shall be issued in the book-entry form. Investment certificates shall be issued in the book-entry form only. The securities of the collective investment institution shall be paid with the funds solely, except in the case provided for in clause 4, part nine of Article 7 hereof. The payment of securities in instalments shall not be allowed. Amendments to the prospectus for issue of securities of the interval collective investment institution must be submitted within seven working days from the date of the resolution on the amendment. The prospectus and any amendments thereto shall be signed by the director and the chief accountant of the asset management company. Losses incurred due to the submission of unreliable information contained in the Prospectus and amendments shall be reimbursed. The grounds for refusing to register the prospectus for issue of securities of the collective investment institution or any amendments thereto shall be: a breach by an issuer of securities or an asset management company of the requirements of the laws on securities. Article 54. Registration of issuance of shares of a corporate fund, for the purpose of collective investment. The term for the placement of securities of perpetual (termless) collective investment institution shall be unlimited. The term of placement of. securities of the fixed-term collective investment institutions shall be specified in the prospectus for. issue. The requirement on the minimum amount of assets shall apply to a unit fund six months after the date of registration of the issuance of its investment certificates. Investment certificates of such an institution shall be placed at a price determined in accordance with Article 56 hereof. In the event that a unit fund does not comply with the minimum asset requirement, the Commission shall recognise the issue of its investment certificates as not occurred. All funds received by the unit fund must be returned to participants of the collective investment institution within one month. The number of the securities of the collective investment institution acquired by an investor shall be determined by dividing the amount paid by the investor into the price of one security. If the mentioned division results in a balance of funds, the balance of the balance will be dealt with by one of the investors in the application for the following actions.  applications for the acquisition of investment certificates of the unit fund shall be accepted. Placement and redemption of securities of the collective investment institution shall be made by the asset management company directly and/or through securities traders. The period between the payment by the investor of funds in accordance with the application for acquisition of securities and the date of performance by the issuer must not exceed seven days. Redemption of investment certificates of an open unit fund shall be carried out every working day, starting from the day following the day on which the Commission is notified of the compliance of the unit fund with the minimum asset requirements of the collective investment institution. The redemption of shares of a interval corporate fund. The asset management company of a closed collective. investment institution may resolve on early redemption of the securities of a collective investment. institution. The redemption of the securities of the collective investment institution shall be suspended by the asset management company simultaneously with the placement thereof. From the moment of the resolution is adopted to liquidate the corporate fund, it shall be thereby prohibited to place its shares. In the event of a threat of substantial harm to the interests of the participants in the collective. investment institution or the state, the Commission may decide to suspend the placement and redemption of. the securities. The securities of the collective investment institution shall be converted at the estimated value of such securities determined on the date of the application for the conversion. The total value of securities acquired by an investor as a result of conversion may not be less than that of securities withdrawn from the circulation. The securities of corporate fund shall not be subject to a mandatory listing procedure. An asset management company is an economic company duly legally in the form of a joint-stock company or a limited liability company. It is engaged in professional activities in the assets management of the institutional investors on the basis of a licence issued by the Commission. The authorised capital of the asset Management company shall be not less than UAH 7 mln. The company must carry out transactions with the assets of the collective investment institution it manages. It must also dispose of the assets free of charge. The company must also acquire property and securities of types not provided for in the investment declaration of the asset management company. It can also obtain a loan or credit to be repaid from the assets for other purposes. The maximum remuneration to the asset management company (including the bonus), its accrual and payment shall be determined by the Commission. The regulation on the composition and costs for the performance of its functions by the asset Management company and reimbursed from the assets of the collective investment institution, shall be approved by the commission. The assets of the collective investment institution in the form of securities maintained by the depository system shall be held in the securities account of the custodian. If the asset management company is declared bankrupt, the assets shall not be included in the liquidation estate. The custodian of the assets of a unit fund of a private placement may be a legal entity. The bank, which is the custodian of the assets of the collective investment institution (other than a venture fund) in the form of securities, must have a credit rating at least equal to the investment level, determined by an authorised or recognised international rating agency. If the credit rating of the bank has fallen to the speculative level according to the National rating scale or has lost its validity, the bank shall be obliged to bring its activities into conformity with the requirements of the law. The custodian of the collective investment institution shall inform the Commission of any activity of the asset management company found to be inconsistent with the prospectus for issue of securities. The Custodian shall be required to provide such information within three working days of the finding of the violation. The funds of the corporate fund shall be credited to its bank account. The bank, which acts as the custodian of the assets of the collective investment institution, may perform the day-to-day servicing of the accounts. The bank shall be obliged to credit, store and transfer funds to the account of the corporate fund or the asset management company of the unit fund. The audit of the results of the activities of the asset management company of the respective collective investment institution shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements set by the Law of Ukraine "On Audit Activities". The auditor’s (audit firm) remuneration shall be paid from the assets of the collective investment institutions. Information on the collective investment institution shall be disclosed in the procedure established by the law. Information which is mandatory hereunder for publication shall not be confidential. The agreement may not limit the obligations of the custodian of the assets of the collective Investment Institution established hereby and the law on the depositary system. Commission shall establish additional requirements for agreement to be entered into with persons serving collective investment institutions. The website of the asset management company shall contain information to be made public in accordance with the law, as well as the requirements of the internal documents. The prospectus for issue of securities of the collective investment institution and the rules should be made freely available to the participants of the institution. The advertising of the collective investment institution and its securities shall be regulated by the Law of Ukraine "On Advertising" The state regulation over collective investment shall be carried out by the Commission. This Law shall enter into force on 1 January 2014, with the exception of clause 8 of part five, clause 9 of part eight and clause 12 of part eleven. The Law of Ukraine "On Collective Investment Institutions (Unit and Corporate Investment Funds)" (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 2001, No. 21, Art. 103) shall be deemed repealed. Part four of Article 152 of the Civil Code of Ukraine shall be supplemented by paragraph two to read: "The procedure for the establishment, operation and termination of corporate investment funds shall be governed by the law on collective investment institutions"; In Article 3: part two shall be added with a new paragraph after paragraph four to read as follows: "shares of a corporate investment fund". In this connection, paragraphs 5 to 13 shall be considered as paragraphs 6 to 14, respectively. In paragraph one, part one of Article 6 the words "and legislation on collective investment institutions" shall be deleted; shall be supplemented with Articles 5-2 and 6-1. A share of a corporate investment fund shall mean a security issued by a corporate Investment fund and certifying the property rights of its owner. The term for placement of shares of open and interval corporate investment funds shall be unlimited. The issue, circulation, accounting and settlement of shares in the corporate investmentfund shall be determined by the legislation on collective investment institutions. The requirements of part one of Article 51 hereof shall not apply to investment certificates for bearer, the prospectus of which is registered prior to the entry into force of this Law. Agreements on the sale and purchase of securities of the collective investment institution shall be performed on the terms and conditions specified therein. It shall be prohibited to extend the term of such agreements. Establishment of collective investment institutions (investment funds and investment companies) in accordance with the Decree of the President of Ukraine No. 1994 55/94 dated 19 February 1994 "On Investment Funds and Investment Companies" shall be prohibited. Closed investment funds and closed mutual funds of investment companies. The National Commission on Securities and Stock Market shall ensure that its regulative acts are in conformity with the Law. The National Commission on Securities and Stock Market shall develop and approve an interim procedure for the convening and remote holding of a general meeting of the corporate fund. Temporarily, in connection with the implementation of measures aimed at preventing the occurrence and spread of coronavirus disease (COVID-19), the provisions of Article 75 of the Law of Ukraine "On collective Investment Institutions" in part of time limits for the disclosure of the annual report of the collective investment institution for 2019 shall not apply in 2020.