This law defines the legal basis for protecting business entities and consumers from unfair competition. The law is aimed at establishing, developing and ensuring trade and other fair practices of competition in the implementation of economic activities in the conditions of market relations. The terms used for the purposes of this Law are determined by the Law of Ukraine “On Protection of Economic Competition” Copying of the product appearance is a reproduction of product appearance from another business entity. If copying is attributed solely to its functional use, such copying is not considered illegitimate. This article does not apply to products that are protected as intellectual property objects. Advertising is considered comparative if it contains a comparison of a person to other persons. Bribing of a supplier's employee, acting official shall be understood as giving or offering to him, directly or via third parties by a buyer's (customer's) competitor material. Any other person being under authority to make decisions on the supplier's behalf on delivery of goods, carrying out works, rendering services, and thus having an influence on such a decision, or being otherwise involved with the supplier shall be placed on the same footing as the employee. Dissemination of misleading information is understood as a statement by a business entity to another person or a number of persons. Statements are considered as misleading information if they: contain incomplete, inaccurate or false data about the origin of the product, the manufacturer, seller, method of manufacturing, sources and method of purchase and sales. Illegitimate use of commercial secrets shall be understood as an introduction into the production cycle or taking into account while planning or performing business activities of information, that according to the Ukrainian legislation, constitutes a commercial secret without permission of an authorised person. A business entity that committed actions that are defined by this Law as unfair competition shall be imposed with a fine. Businesses cannot be liable for committing actions defined by this Law if the time bar for such liability has expired. If the fact of defamation of a business entity had been established, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine bodies shall have the right to make a decision on the official refutation at the expense of the violator. Decisions of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine bodies on the results of case hearings on unfair competition shall be published. Decisions must be published completely, except information that was classified as for official use only. Rules of professional ethics in competition may be used in drafting contracts, the development of statutory and other types of documents.