This Law shall regulate legal relations connected with the development, registration, manufacturing, quality control and sale of medicinal products. It shall determine the rights and obligations of enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens, as well as the competence of the executive authorities and officials in this field. The legislation on medicinal products shall comprise this Law and other legislative acts adopted under it.  active pharmaceutical ingredient (drug substance, active substance, substance) (hereinafter – API or active substance) is any substance or mixture of substances intended to be used in the manufacture of a medicinal product. Such substances have a pharmacological or another direct effect on the human body. As part of finished pharmaceutical forms of medicinal products, they are used to cure, diagnose or prevent a disease. “In bulk” product is any medicinal product intended for manufacturing a finished pharmaceutical product. dosage form is a form combination in which the medicinal product is presented by the manufacturer. The term “specialised procurement organisations” shall be used in the meaning given in the Law of Ukraine “On Public Procurement”. Entities creating medicinal products may be developed by enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens. The author (and co-author) of a medicinal product shall be an individual (individuals) developing the medicinal product by inventive, research work. The property and non-property rights connected with the development and manufacturing of the medicinal products shall be regulated in accordance with the legislation. Clinical trials of medicinal products shall be conducted after an obligatory review of the ethical, moral, and legal aspects of the clinical trial programme by the Ethics Committees established and function at the healthcare facilities where clinical trials are conducted. The sponsor of clinical trials shall have the right to be informed about the progress of the trials of the medicinal product. Clinical trials of medicinal products involving a minor may be conducted according to the procedure stipulated by the law. The sponsor of clinical trials of a medicinal product shall be obliged to conclude a life and health insurance contract of a patient before starting clinical trials. It is prohibited to conduct clinical trials with the involvement of a minor or a juvenile deprived of parental care, an adopted child or an orphan. State registration of medicinal products shall be conducted by virtue of an application submitted to the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare. The application for state registration of a medicinal product shall contain the name and address of the manufacturer; address of its location and manufacturing sites. The application for state registration of a medicinal product, subject to procurement based on the results of a procurement procedure conducted by a specialised procurement organisation. The application must be accompanied by materials of registration dossier; methods of quality control for medicinal product (finished product); a report on evaluation of medicinal product drawn up by the regulatory authority of the country where it is registered. The central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare shall make a decision to approve or refuse the registration of a medicinal product. The review period of the above materials for a centrally authorised medicinal product, registered by the competent authority of the European Union and used on the territory of these countries or European Union Member States, shall not exceed ten days. Information provided in an application for state registration of a medicinal product shall be subject to state protection against disclosure and unfair commercial use. The central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare shall be obliged to protect such information against disclosure. All the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials of medicinal products are public information. The application for state registration of a medicinal product (except for API and medicinal products, subject to procurement) shall be accompanied by a certified copy of a document confirming the compliance of the manufacturing conditions. A written obligation of the manufacturer to produce the relevant medicinal product for delivery to Ukraine may be added. Individuals guilty of disclosure or illegal use of registration information shall bear disciplinary, administrative, civil and/or criminal liability under the laws of Ukraine. For registered medicinal product, the applicant shall be issued a certificate specifying the period of validity during which the medicinal product shall be authorised for use in Ukraine. The medicinal product may be used in Ukraine for five years from the date of its state registration. At the request of an individual who submitted the application for state registration, the period during which it is allowed for use within the territory of Ukraine may be reduced by the decision of the registering authority. The decision to refuse the state registration of a medicinal product shall be made if the opinions on its efficacy and safety are not confirmed. State registration may be refused in the event that, as a result of such registration, the valid intellectual property proprietary rights protected by a patent, including in the process of manufacturing, use and sale of medical products, shall be infringed. The central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare shall send a written reasoned response to the applicant about the refusal to register a medicinal product within ten working days. Medicinal products made in pharmacies from the approved for use active substances and excipients according to prescriptions of doctors and to order from healthcare facilities shall not be subject to state registration. A medicinal product shall be required to be included in the List of Medicinal Products, Medical Devices and Accessories to Them Procured Using the State Budget Funds for the Implementation of Programmes and Centralised Health Protection Measures. The state registration of a medicinal product, purchased by an individual authorised to procure in the field of healthcare and at the same time registered by the competent authority of the United States of America, the Swiss Confederation, Japan, Australia, Canada, shall be carried out with the following peculiarities. An application for the state registration of such a medicinal product shall be accompanied by a document confirming the registration of the medicinal product in the relevant country or registration by the competent authority of the European Union. The application must be signed by the applicant or their authorised representative. The period of authenticity verification of the registration materials for the relevant medicinal product should not exceed seven days from the date of submission of these materials. The decision to approve or refuse the registration of such a medicinal product shall be made by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare. The grounds for refusing state registration shall be as follows: failure to submit relevant materials, detection of discrepancies in the submitted materials affecting the efficacy, safety and quality of the medicinal product, and non-authenticity of the translation of the package label text.  application for state registration of such a medicinal product shall be accompanied by materials of registration dossier; materials on methods of the medicinal product quality control; a document confirming the payment of registration fee; labelling of primary and secondary (if any) packages of medicinal product; instruction for medical use. The decision to approve or refuse the registration of such a medicinal product shall be made by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare. The applicant (registration certificate holder) and/or his representative for implementation of any procedure for state registration of the medicinal product provided for by this Article shall be a legal entity or an individual who is responsible for efficacy, safety and quality. In case of a decision to refuse the state registration of a medicinal product, the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare shall send the applicant a written reasoned response. The decision on refusal may be appealed in accordance with the procedure established by the law. The medicinal product registered according to part four of this Article may be in circulation on the territory of Ukraine solely for free supply to the structural health care subdivisions of Oblast State Administrations. In connection with spreading the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic to ensure the possibility of emergency medical use of vaccines or other medical immunobiological preparations. The applicant can prove the absence of the possibility to provide full data on the efficacy and safety of vaccines. Such vaccines may be subject to accelerated state registration if the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare decides to approve. Vaccines or other medical immunobiological preparations submitted for state registration under the obligation for emergency medical use shall be available only on the health care provider's prescription. The applicant shall be obliged to report to the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare on adverse reactions to vaccines. The validity of the registration certificate may be extended up to five years. The registration certificate renewal shall provide for an annual evaluation of the fulfilment of relevant obligations. A vaccine or other medical immunobiological preparation may be provided with accelerated registration in Ukraine for emergency medical use under the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A vaccine or other medical immunobiological preparation evaluation report drawn up by the regulatory authority of the country in which the vaccine is registered. A document on risk assessment and management approved by a decision on granting an authorisation for emergency use or on registration under a certain condition in the relevant country. An application for state registration for emergency medical use signed by the applicant. The registration of a vaccine or other medical immunobiological preparation for emergency medical use shall be conducted for the validity period of the relevant authorisation or registration under certain condition. The central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare has the right to take obligations on behalf of Ukraine related to the procurement, use of vaccines. The reason for issuance of the licence to medicinal product manufacturing shall be the existence of appropriate material and technical resources, qualified personnel, as well as conditions for quality control of medicinal products to be produced. The label, outer and immediate packages of the medicinal product shall contain the following data: name of medicinal product; name and address of its manufacturer; registration number. Each medicinal product sold shall be accompanied by instruction for medical use of the medicinal product. The language of labelling for medicinal products, instructions for their medical use shall be the state language unless otherwise provided by the law. Medicinal products intended for clinical trials shall have the marking “For clinical trials” The requirements of parts one, two, three and five of this Article shall not apply to the medicinal products imported into the territory of Ukraine with labelling and instruction for medical use/summary of product characteristics in the original language (a language other than the state one) State quality control of medicinal products is a set of organisational and legal measures aimed at compliance by business entities. The head of the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of control over the quality and safety of medicinal products is ex officio the Chief State Inspector of Ukraine for Medicinal Product Quality Control. The Deputy Chiefs by virtue of their position are accordingly the Deputies of the Chief City Inspector of Health. Control over quality of medicines in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblasts, cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol shall be conducted by Chief State Inspectors. Procedure for prohibition (temporary prohibition) and withdrawal from the circulation of medicinal products on the territory of Ukraine shall be established. Officials of the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of control over the quality and safety of medicinal product shall be protected by the law. Officials subject to compulsory state social insurance under the applicable law. A licence for the import of medicinal products (except API) is issued to the importer (manufacturer or individual representing the manufacturer in Ukraine) according to the procedure established by law. All medicinal products imported into the customs territory of Ukraine for the purpose of their further sale (trade) or use in the production of finished pharmaceutical products shall be subject to state quality control. The expiry date of medicines imported into Ukraine shall be at least half of the period specified by the manufacturer. The requirements of parts one and two of this Article shall not apply to medicinal products subject to procurement based on the results of a procurement procedure conducted by a specialised procurement organisation. The import of such medicinal products into the territory of Ukraine shall be conducted on the availability of a batch quality certificate issued by the manufacturer. In the absence of a licence to conduct business activities on the import of medicinal products in an individual authorised to make procurements in the field of healthcare, compliance with the legal requirements to license business activities during import into Ukraine will be ensured. The individual authorised to make procurements in the field of healthcare shall be exempted from the obligation to obtain a licence for the import of medicinal products. The unregistered medicinal products may be imported into the customs territory of Ukraine for: the moving in transit through the territory, placement in the customs regime of a customs warehouse with subsequent re-export. The need for such medicinal products in Ukraine is limited, i.e. the medicinal product is intended for use by a limited number of patients. Medicinal products are approved for use according to the established procedure on the territory of one of the following countries: the United States of America, the Swiss Confederation, Japan, Australia, Canada or under a centralised procedure in the Member States of the European Union. The list of unregistered medicinal products (according to the international non-proprietary names) that may be imported into the territory of Ukraine for the purpose of supply. The central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare shall be responsible for the safety and efficiency and pharmacovigilance. A business entity may conduct wholesale and retail trade in medicinal products subject to conformity with the licensing conditions of a certain type of activity. A business entity, which is licensed to conduct business activities in the retailing of medicinal products, may carry out retail trade. The licensee shall be included in the List of Business Entities Entitled to Conduct Electronic Retailing. The agreement on delivery of medicinal products to the final consumer shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Delivery of the medicinal products solely from the pharmacies included in the List of Business Entities Entitled to Conduct Electronic Retailing of Medicinal Products under this Law. It shall be prohibited to conduct the electronic retail trade and delivery of the following: medicinal products sold (dispensed) to citizens on the doctor's prescriptions. A business entity entitled to conduct electronic retailing of medicinal products shall be obliged to ensure the confidentiality of the consumers' personal data. A business entity, which is licensed to conduct business activities in the retail trade in medicinal products, shall be liable to the final consumer for maintaining the medicinal product quality and compliance with the storage conditions specified by the manufacturer. Only registered medicinal products may be sold on the territory of Ukraine, except as otherwise provided for by this Law. The sale of medicinal products shall be conducted strictly subject to availability of the quality certificate issued by the manufacturer. Sale (dispensing) of medicinal product to citizens shall be carried out on the doctor's prescriptions and without prescriptions. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Oblast State Administrations, Kyiv and Sevastopol City State Administrators shall create their own pharmaceutical stockpile in case of natural disasters, catastrophes, and epidemic diseases. Financing for the development, preclinical study, clinical trial, manufacture, quality control of medicinal products shall be carried out. Advertising requirements for such medicinal products shall be established by the Law of Ukraine “On Advertising” The criteria used to determine the drugs, the advertising of which is prohibited, shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of healthcare according to the requirements of the law.