This Law defines the legal and organisational grounds for establishing and operating the industrial parks within the territory of Ukraine. It is intended to ensure economic development and increase the competitiveness of territories. It also aims to activate investment activities, create new jobs, develop modern industrial and market infrastructure. Trans-border industrial park is an industrial park that is created and operating by virtue of an international treaty of Ukraine concluded between the governments of states or their authorised initiators of creation. The procedure for the creation and operation of such industrial parks is regulated by international treaties of Ukraine. This law shall apply to relations arising in connection with the creation, operation and liquidation of industrial parks. The right to create industrial parks on lands of state and municipal property is granted to state authorities, local authorities that exercise the right of the owner to land on behalf of Ukrainian people under the Constitution of Ukraine. Industrial parks may be created on the initiative of lessees after making appropriate changes to the land plot lease agreement. Territory choice for an industrial park is carried out by state authorities and local self-governments. The use of land plots within the scope of industrial parks must respond to sanitary, epidemiological and environmental requirements. Participants may use land plots in the legal forms provided for by the Land Code of Ukraine. The sources of provision of finance for the development of an industrial park may be funds from the state and local budgets allocated in accordance with the procedure. Funds from private investors, including funds attracted under the model of state-private partnership, attracted funds, including loans from banks and other financial and credit institutions. State authority shall create, maintain and publish on its official website a Register of industrial parks. Industrial parks are included with the application of the initiators of creation in order to provide state support provided by law. Industrial park can be included in the Register in case given the time of its including, the integral property complex is missing. Industrial park concept is approved by the initiator of such a park creation by means of making the appropriate decision. State authority is obliged to notify in writing within three working days from the date of making a decision to include an industrial park in the Register of industrial parks. Business entities in the field of centralised water supplies and drainage, electricity and natural gas market, are obliged to render necessary information regarding the availability of resources for the creation of industrial park. The technical conditions are an integral part of the agreement on connection to the electric networks. Procedure of connection to electricity, gas and water supply networks is established in accordance with the legislation. The information about tender proclamation of choosing the management company shall contain the following data: 1) entity that initiated the industrial park creation; 2) industrial park conceptions; 3) tender conditions, approved by the initiator of creation. The bidding to participate in tender shall be submitted within 30 days from the day of its proclamation. If bidding for participation in the tender was received from only one applicant, he may be recognised as the winner of the tender. Contract on creation and operation of an industrial park shall be concluded between the initiator of the creation and a legal entity selected in accordance with this Law. After this agreement being signed acquires the status of a management company. The contract on creation and operation of an industrial park can be amended with the mutual consent of the parties. Reorganisation of the management company-legal entity is not a reason for the dissolution of the contract. The contract can be terminated ahead of schedule in case of an essential breach. In case of termination of the contract on creation and operation of an industrial park, the management company is obliged to return to the initiator of the creation the land plots not alienated to the property of the participants. The management company must sign contracts on economic activities within the industrial park with all participants on terms that do not worsen the situation of participants. Legal entity lose the status of the management company from the day of termination of contract on creation and operation of an industrial park. The initiator of the creation is obliged to notify state authority during the same day about loss of status of management company. If industrial park is included in the Register of industrial parks, the state authority is obligated to notify during same day. Management company has right to provide right on land plots, existing objects of engineering and transport infrastructure and other objects, located within the scope of the industrial park. Initiator of the creation possesses also other rights and obligations, provided by the contract on creation and operation of theindustrial park and legislation. Management company is obliged to execute the terms of the contract on creation and operation of the industrial park. Management company has also other rights and obligations. Government authority obtains quarterly reports from the management company on the operation of an industrial park and maintains the Register of industrial parks. Government authority also performs other powers, provided by the law. Formation of state policy regarding the creation and operation of industrial parks, is performed by the central executive authority. The subject of economic activity shall obtain the status of the participant from the following moment: concluding the contract on performing economic activity. Contract on performing economic activity within the scope of industrial park is concluded between the management company and the business entity. Essential terms of the contract are the following: kinds of activity, works, services, which are carried out in accordance with terms of contract. The participant does not have a right to transmit to the third parties its own rights and/or obligations. Industrial park participants' status is preserved in case of liquidation of management company. Legal regime of property of economic activity participants within the scope of an industrial park. The objects of infrastructure, created by the management company, belong to management company on the right of ownership. State support of industrial parks arrangement can be carried out at the expense of state and local budgets and from other sources not prohibited by law. Business entities, that receive state support in accordance with this Law, are obliged to keep separate accounting and tax accounting of economic activity within the industrial park. In case of termination of industrial park activity, the legal regime of the property of the initiator, management company is determined. No contract on creation and operation of an industrial park has been concluded within two years from the date of the decision to create it, except in the cases, specified by the law. Liquidation of management company of state or municipal property is carried out in the manner, defined by the legislation. In case of industrial park liquidation, rights for land plots are transferred to the initiator of the creation.  machinery, equipment and accessories to them, materials not manufactured in Ukraine, which are not excisable goods. The released funds shall be applied by relevant entities for: 1) arrangement of industrial parks, including using the cutting edge, energy saving technologies; 2) establishment of cutting edge technologies related to the economic activity within industrial parks. Law. to develop and approve the procedure of determination the list of equipment, accessories to them. materials that are not produced in Ukraine provided for this Law. President of Ukraine V. YANUKOVYCH City of Kyiv 21 June 2012 No. 5018-VI