This Law is aimed at ensuring the protection of people and the environment from the harmful impact of radioactive waste at present and in the future. The Law applies to all activities with radioactive waste. For the purposes of this Law, the following terms and concepts shall apply: Radioactive waste producers are legal entities or individuals. Long-lived radioactive waste is radioactive waste, the level of exemption of which is reached in 300 years or more. Radioactive wastes are tangible objects and substances, the activity of radionuclides or radioactive contamination of which exceeds the limits established by current regulations. Specialised enterprise for radioactive waste management is an enterprise that collects, processes, transports, stores and (or) disposes of radioactive waste on the basis of a licence. The State Fund for Radioactive Waste Management (hereinafter referred to as the Fund) is created as part of the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. The revenues of the Fund are formed at the expense of money received from the environmental tax levied for the generation of radioactive waste. The Fund's money is allocated for the implementation of budget programmes. The main administrator of the Fund's money is the central executive authority responsible for public administration in the field of radioactive waste management. The rates and procedure for calculating the environmental tax levied for the generation of. radioactive waste (including already accumulated waste) and/or temporary storage of radioactive. waste by its producers shall be established by the Tax Code of Ukraine. The jurisdiction of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the field of radioactive waste management includes: Participation in the formation and implementation of the state policy of Ukraine. Participation in international co-operation. Public administration and public regulation during radioactive waste Management. Exercise control over ensuring the safety of the population and environmental protection on their territory. The powers defined in part one of this Article shall be exercised by the central executive authority implementing public policy in the field of management of the exclusion zone and the zone of unconditional (mandatory) resettlement. State regulation of safety during radioactive waste management is carried out by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nuclear Safety of Ukraine. Permits (licences) are issued for activities in theField of Radioactive Waste Management in accordance with the procedure established by law. Co-ordination of works on the collection, processing, transportation, storage and disposal of radioactive waste of industry, nuclear energy, medicine, research institutions and radioactive waste generated during the liquidation of the Chornobyl disaster. Organisation of the activity of specialised enterprises on radioactive waste management. Creation and ensuring the functioning of the state record-keeping system. Radioactive waste becomes the property of the state since signing the document on the transfer of radioactive waste from the licensee. The licensee, whose activity caused waste generation, shall be responsible for radiation protection and safety during radioactive waste management. Be able to indemnify for losses from radiation accidents during radioactive Waste Management at their own expense. The procedure for keeping records of radioactive waste shall be established by the state regulatory body for nuclear and radiation safety. The State Cadastre of Radioactive Waste Repositories must contain a systematised data bank of location, quantitative and qualitative characteristics, conditions of storage or disposal of radioactive Waste, control and monitoring systems. The amount of radionuclides to be disposed of is regulated by norms, rules and standards on nuclear and radiation safety. Disposal of short-lived solid radioactive waste can be carried out in near-surface and above-ground radioactive waste repositories. Spent nuclear fuel that cannot be recycled is stored in special spent nuclear fuel repositories. The conditions and mode of transportation of radioactive waste by air, rail, water or road transport shall be agreed upon with the relevant units of the National Police. The responsibility for its elimination, as well as the protection of personnel, population, environment and tangible assets rests with the consignor, unless otherwise provided for in the transportation agreement. The special regime on the territory of radioactive waste repositories in the sanitary protection zone after their shut-down is regulated by law. The decision to construct a facility intended for radioactive waste management is made by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with their competence. The decision to select a site for the construction of the radioactive waste repository or the facility intended for radioactive waste management shall be made by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the respective competence. The design, construction and commissioning of radioactive waste repositories or facilities intended for nuclear waste management should be designed in accordance to applicable norms, rules and standards. The project of the nuclear waste repository must contain two safety assessments. Social guarantees for citizens who live or work in the area of radioactive waste repositories and facilities intended for radioactive waste management. Citizens guaranteed the right to compensation for damage caused by these repositories. Social protection of personnel working with radioactive waste includes: Compulsory national health insurance, reduced working hours, supplements to wages and salaries, obtaining loans, etc. International co-operation in the field of radioactive waste management is carried out in accordance with international law. Law may provide for liability for other violations. Legal basis for international co- cooperation is rules of international treaties to which Ukraine is a party. President of Ukraine L. KUCHMA City of Kyiv 30 June 1995 No. 255/95-лњла