This Law shall regulate the relations on creating, gathering, obtaining, storing, using, disseminating, protecting and securing information. The main areas of the state information policy shall include: ensuring that every person has access to the information; creating conditions for the formation of the information society in Ukraine; creating information systems and information networks. The right to information shall be protected by law. No one may restrict the right of a person to choose forms and sources of obtaining information. The state guarantees equal rights and opportunities for accessing information to all subjects of information relations. The main types of information activity shall include creating, gathering, obtaining, storing, using, disseminating, protecting and securing the information. Information on an individual (personal data) shall mean details or a set of details about an individual, which is or may be explicitly identified. It shall not be allowed to gather, store, use and disseminate confidential information about a person without his/her consent. The main source of reference and encyclopaedic information shall be: encyclopaedia, dictionaries, guides, advertisements and announcements. Information on the state of the environment (environmental information) shall be determined by the laws of Ukraine and international treaties of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. Information on the influence of goods (work, service) on human life and health may not be classified as restricted information. The state guarantees the subjects of information relations free access to the official state statistical information, except for the information restricted under the law. Sources of legal information shall be the Constitution of Ukraine, other legislative and subordinate regulatory acts, international treaties and agreements, norms principles of international law. Mass information shall mean information disseminated in order to communicate it to the general public. Media shall mean means intended for public dissemination of printed or audiovisual information. Information products and information services are an object of civil law relations regulated by the civil legislation of Ukraine. It shall be prohibited to interfere with the professional activity of journalists, control the content of disseminated information, withholding socially necessary information, imposing a prohibition to cover certain topics, display certain persons or disseminate information about them. A journalist shall have the right to freely visit the premises of public authorities, open events held, and be personally received within reasonable periods of time. All accreditation-related actions must be based on the principles of transparency, equality and fairness. Lack of accreditation may not be the ground for denying access for a journalist and media employee to open events held by a public authority. A journalist, media employee shall be accredited on a free-of-charge basis following his/her application or submission of the media. Information may not be used for calling to overthrow the constitutional order, infringing the territorial integrity of Ukraine, propaganda of war, violence, cruelty, incitement to ethnic, racial, religious hatred. Violation of the legislation of Ukraine on information shall be punishable in the form of disciplinary, civil, administrative or criminal liability under the laws of Ukraine. If a person believes that value judgments or opinions degrade his/her dignity, honour or goodwill, they may enjoy the right granted by the legislation. If a subjective opinion is expressed in a brutal, humiliating and indecent manner, a person may be obliged to compensate for the caused non-pecuniary damage. Subjects of information relations shall be released from liability for disclosing restricted information. Part 1 of Article 200 of the Civil Code of Ukraine (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 2003, Nos. 40–44, Article 356) shall be amended to read as follows: “Unlawful refusal of a person to provide information, late or incomplete provision of information, provision of false information, if such information is to be provided at the request of law enforcement authorities, the Accounting Chamber’; in Article 212-26: in paragraph 2 of part 1, the words “twenty-five” shall be replaced with the word “thirty”; paragraph 1 of part 2 of the Law of Ukraine “On State Statistics” will be amended. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within six months after the enactment of this Law, shall: bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law; ensure that ministries and other central executive authorities review and cancel their regulatory acts contrary to this Law. “scientific and technical information means information and/or data on domestic and foreign achievements in science, technology, and manufacturing”