The Code of Commercial Procedure of Ukraine determines the jurisdiction and powers of commercial courts, establishes the procedure for administering proceedings in commercial courts. The main principles of commercial proceedings are as follows: rule of law, equality before the law and the court of all trial participants, publicity and openness of a trial. The right to appeal to the commercial court in the manner prescribed by this Code shall be guaranteed. Legal entities and individual entrepreneurs, individuals who are not entrepreneurs, state bodies and local governments shall have the right to apply. The agreement of the parties on the transfer of a dispute to arbitration (international commercial arbitration) shall be allowed. The Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System shall operate in commercial courts. Claims and other statements, complaints and other procedural documents provided for by law are subject to mandatory registration in the system. A judge or a panel of judges (judge-rapporteur) for consideration of a specific case shall be assigned. The court shall serve to the persons who have registered official e-mail addresses in the Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System any documents on cases in which such persons participate exclusively in electronic form. The court shall consider a case on the basis of the case files in electronicform. The cases shall be considered in commercial courts orally and openly, except for the cases provided for by this Code. Any person shall have the right to be present at an open court hearing. The court may remove from the courtroom persons who obstruct the conduct of a court hearing, the exercise of the rights or performance of duties of the trial participants or a judge. If all trial participants participate in the court hearing by videoconference, the court meeting must be live-streamed on the Internet. A case shall be considered in the closed court hearing if the open court hearing may result in the disclosure of confidential or other information protected by law. Only case parties and, if necessary, witnesses, experts, specialists and interpreters may be present at such a hearing. The use of video conferencing systems and livestreaming of the court hearing on the Internet shall not be allowed. Only the introductory and operative parts of a judgment shall be announced publicly if such parts do not contain information, for the protection of which a case was heard or certain procedural actions were taken in the closed court hearing. If the trial is announced publicly, the trial participants, other persons present in the courtroom and media representatives may take photographs, record video and livestream the announcement. The courts shall ensure equality of rights of trial participants regardless of the language. The court shall consider cases in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, laws of Ukraine and international treaties that the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine agrees are binding. When disclosing information on a case, the following information shall not be disclosed: place of residence or stay of individuals with address. The court appeals to the Supreme Court to resolve an issue of submitting to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine a petition concerning the constitutionality of a law or other legal act. In case of non-compliance of a legal act with a legal acts of higher legal force, the court shall apply the norms of the legal act of higher force. The parties to a case shall have equal rights to exercise all procedural rights and obligations provided for in this Code. Each party bears the risk of implications associated with the commission or non-commission of procedural actions. While maintaining objectivity and impartiality, the court shall: 1) govern the trial procedure; 2) promote the settlement of a dispute by reaching an agreement between the parties. Case parties shall have the right to legal aid. Representation in court, as a type of legal aid, shall be carried out exclusively by a lawyer (professional legal assistance), except in cases established by law. The right to case review and appeal of the court judgment. The binding nature of court judgments.  disputes arising from the conclusion, amending, termination and execution of transactions in economic activities, except for transactions, in which an individual is a not an entrepreneur. The parties to which are legal entities and (or) individual entrepreneurs, are: 1) cases in disputes concerning the privatisation of property,except for disputes over state housing stock; 2) cases of corporate relations, including disputes between participants (founders, shareholders, members) of a legal entity; 3) cases relating to the establishment, activities, management or termination of such a legal entities. 8) bankruptcy cases and cases in disputes with property claims against the debtor, in respect of which bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated. 9) cases on approval of plans to financial recovery of the debtor before initiating bankruptcy proceedings. 10) cases concerning appeals against acts (judgments) of economic entities and their bodies, officials and employees. Cases in disputes concerning the rights to invention, utility model, industrial design, trademark (trademark for goods and services), commercial name and other intellectual property rights, including the right to prior use. It shall not be allowed to combine several claims into one proceeding, which are subject to consideration as part of different proceedings. Disputes arising from the conclusion, amendment, termination and execution of public procurement contracts may be referred to international commercial arbitration. Any inaccuracies in the text of an agreement must be interpreted by the court in favour of its validity and enforceability. The judgment of the arbitral court may be appealed in the manner prescribed by law. Location of a legal entity and an individual entrepreneur shall be determined in accordance with the Unified State Register of Legal Entities, Individual Entrepreneurs and Public Associations. For the purposes of determining the jurisdiction under this Code, the place of residence of an individual who is not an entrepreneur should be the place where they registered. Claims against a defendant who does not have a location or place of residence in Ukraine may be filed at the location of their property. Disputes over the rights to sea and air vessels, inland navigation vessels, space objects shall be resolved by the commercial court at the place of their state registration.  Disputes related to the issuance, placement or redemption of securities shall be considered by the commercial court at the location of an issuer. Disputes between a legal entity and its official (including an official whose powers have been terminated) on compensation for damages caused by the actions (inaction) of its official. A case shall be transferred to another court under the jurisdiction established by this Code. Disputes between the courts concerning jurisdiction shall not be allowed. In case of liquidation or termination of the court, the cases that were in its proceedings shall be immediately transferred to the court determined by the relevant law. The composition of the permanent panels of judges shall be determined by the conference of judges of the relevant court. If the case is to be considered by a panel comprising more than three judges, such panel shall consist of judges from the permanent panel of judges. Unresolved court cases by a reasoned order of the chief of the court's staff attached to a case file shall be transferred for automated re-distribution of cases. A judge who is not a judge-rapporteur in a case from a panel of judges cannot continue to consider such a case, which may impede the consideration of a case within the time limits established by this Code. If it is impossible to replace a judge terminated from among substitute judges, they shall be replace by the Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System. An application for review of a judgment due to newly-discovered circumstances shall be considered by a chamber, a joint chamber or the Grand Chamber. Results of the automated distribution (re-distribution) of a case shall be recorded in a protocol. The protocol should contain the following information: date, time of beginning and end of automated distribution. Judges by the court of cassation shall be reviewed by the judicial chamber of the Commercial Court of Cassation or the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court. Judges shall not have the right to disclose opinions expressed in the deliberation room. Issues arising during the consideration of a case by a panel of judges shall be resolved by a majority vote of the judges. A judge who does not agree with a judgment may express their dissenting opinion in writing. The case parties shall be notified of the existence of a dissenting opinion without announcing its content at a court hearing. A dissenting opinion shall enter into the case file and shall be open for review. A judge who participated in the case consideration by the court of first instance shall not participate in the consideration of the same case. A judge who participated in the settlement of a dispute in a case involving a judge shall not take part in the consideration of a case on the merits or in the review of any judgment adopted therein. A court secretary, expert, specialist, interpreter of the court hearing shall be subject to recusal on the grounds specified in Article 35 of this Code. The issue of recusal (self-recusal) of a judge shall be resolved both before and after the commencement of proceedings. The court shall satisfy the recusal if it concludes that it is justified. If the application for recusal of aJudge is received by the court later than three working days before the next hearing, such an application shall not be referred for consideration to another judge. The issue of recusal by a judge who is not a member of the court shall be resolved within two working days, but not later than the scheduled trial. A recusal received not during the court hearing shall be considered by the court in accordance with the written procedures. The court that considers an application for recusal shall hear a person against whom the recusal has been filed if they wish to provide an explanation, as well as the opinion of the case parties. The composition of case parties shall be determined by the Law of Ukraine “On Restoring a Debtor's Solvency or Recognising It Bankrupt” Case parties shall have the right to: 1) review the case files, abbreviate them, make duplicates, receive duplicates of judgments. The case parties shall: 1) show respect to the court and to other trial participants; 2) promote the timely, comprehensive, complete and objective establishment of all the case circumstances; 3) appear in court upon its summon, if their appearance is recognised by the court as mandatory; 4) submit all available evidence in the manner and within the time limits established by law. Trial participants and their representatives must exercise procedural rights in good faith. Abuse of procedural rights shall not be allowed. If the filing of an appeal, application, petition is recognised as an abuse of procedural right, the court, taking into account the case circumstances, shall have the right to leave without consideration. All individuals and legal entities shall be able to have procedural rights and obligations of a party, third party, applicant, debtor (procedural legal capacity) Minors between the ages of fourteen and eighteen, as well as persons with limited civil capacity, may personally exercise procedural rights in the court in cases arising from the relationship. A change in the subject or grounds of a claim shall be allowed no later than five days before the first court hearing in a case. A claim may be filed jointly by several plaintiffs or against several defendants. The parties may conclude a settlement agreement at any stage of the proceedings. The court of first instance has the right to involve a co-defendant at the request of a plaintiff until the end of the preliminary proceedings. If a claim is filed not against a person who must defend an action, the court replaces the original defendant with the appropriate defendant. The issue of distribution of court costs shall be resolved in a ruling to replace an improper defendant. Third parties who do not declare independent claims on the subject of a dispute may intervene in a case on the part of a plaintiff or a defendant before the end of the preliminary proceedings or before the first court hearing. If a case is considered without notification of a third party, the circumstances of a case established by a court ruling have no legal consequences. In cases established by law, state authorities, local governments, individuals and legal entities may apply to the court on behalf of others, in the state or public interests. The court shall deliver a ruling on the substitution or refusal to substitute a trial participant with their legal successor. All actions committed in the proceedings before the successor intervenes in a case are binding on them. The owner (participant, shareholder) of a legal entity who owns 10 or more percent of the share capital of a company (except for preferred shares) may file on behalf of such legal entity a claim for compensation for damages caused by its official. In case of initiating proceedings on such a claim, the stated legal entity shall acquire the status of a plaintiff, but shall not be entitled to exercise its procedural rights and obligations without the consent of the owner. Bodies and persons who referred to the court under this Code on behalf of other persons shall have procedural rights and obligations of the person, on whom they act. The court shall leave an application without consideration, except for a claim concerning compensation for damages caused to a legal entity by its official. A party, a third party, as well as a person who by law has the right to refer to the court on behalf of the other person, may participate in the proceedings in person (self-representation) and (or) through a representative. A legal entity, regardless of the procedure of its establishment, shall participate in a case through its head or other person authorised to act on its behalf. Bodies authorised by law to refer to the court on behalf of minors or persons who have been declared incompetent or whose legal capacity is limited shall be represented in the court by their officials. The same person may simultaneously represent several plaintiffs or several defendants or several third parties on one side, given the absence of a conflict of interest between them. A representative empowered to conduct a case in court shall exercise, on behalf of the person he represents, his/her procedural rights and obligations. Restrictions on the representative's powers to perform a certain procedural action must be provided for in the power-of-attorney or warrant issued to him. A court clerk shall: 1) check the trail participants appeared for court hearing, the participants who take part in a court hearing by a videoconference, and shall report to the presiding judge. The secretary of the court hearing may clarify the essence of the procedural action in order to properly reflect it in court hearing minutes. An assistant judge may, on behalf of a judge, exercise his/her powers. Any able-bodied individual who is aware of any circumstances relating to the case may be a witness. The court administrator's requirements related to the performance of the duties specified in Part 1 of this Article shall be binding upon the trial participants and other persons present in the courtroom. Complaints against the actions or omissions of the court administrator shall be considered by the court. Expert: A person who has the special knowledge necessary to clarify the relevant circumstances of the case may be an expert. Expert may be appointed by a court or involved by a case party. Expert shall have the right to get paid for the works performed, as well as obtain compensation for the costs related to the expert examination. A person with a scientific degree and a recognised specialist in the field of law may be involved as a legal expert. A legal expert shall have the right to know the purpose of his or her summons. An expert appointed by the court may refuse to provide an opinion if the files provided at his/her request are insufficient. The participation of an interpreter who is qualified to communicate with the deaf, dumb or deaf-and-dumb is mandatory in the cases, where one of the participants is a person with a hearing impairment. The interpreter shall be allowed by a court ruling upon the case party's application or shall be appointed at the court initiative. Circumstances recognised by the trial participants shall not be subject to proof if the court has no reasonable grounds to consider them unreliable or coercion of their recognition. The court may not collect evidence relating to the subject of a dispute on its own initiative, except for the demand of evidence by the court. A guilty verdict of the court in criminal proceedings or a court ruling, under which a person is brought to administrative responsibility in a case of administrative offence that has entered into force, shall be binding on the commercial court considering the case. The court shall not consider evidence that does not relate to the subject of proof. The defendant, the third party who does not make independent claims on the dispute subject matter, shall submit evidence to the court. If the reasons for failure to submit evidence by the case party within the period established by law are recognised as valid, the court may set an additional term for the submission of such evidence. If it is impossible to provide evidence independently, a trial participant shall have the right to file a petition to demand evidence by the court. Such a request must be filed within the period specified in Parts 2 and 3 of Article 80 of this Code. If such a petition is filed with a delay, the court shall dismiss it, unless the person filing it justifies the impossibility of filing it. Case parties will be notified of the date, time and place of examination of the evidence at their location. The absence of these persons shall not constitute an obstacle to the examination. If necessary, witnesses, interpreters, experts, specialists may be involved, as well as photography, sound and video recording may be authorised. Perishable physical evidence shall be immediately examined by a court with a notification on the scheduled examination of the case parties. The absence of these persons shall not preclude the examination of physical evidence. If necessary, including at the request of a trial participant, the witnesses, interpreters, experts, specialists may be involved in the review of perishablephysical evidence. Court shall evaluate the evidence on the basis of its internal conviction, based on a comprehensive, complete, objective and direct examination of the case evidence. No evidence shall have the preliminary determined force to the court. Testimony of a witness shall mean a statement of circumstances relevant to the case, he/she is aware of. A witness can be summoned by the court for interrogation at the initiative of the court or at the request of a trial participant. Questions to the case party, which is a legal entity, shall be answered by its head or another official on his/her behalf. The case party shall have the right to refuse to provide answers to the following questions: 1) on the grounds specified in Articles 67 and 68 of this Code; 2) for knowingly false testimony. Case parties have the right to submit written evidence in electronic copies. An electronic copy of a written evidence shall not be considered as electronic proof. Foreign official documents shall be recognised as written evidence without their legalisation in cases provided by international treaties, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine.  Originals of written evidence shall be stored in court in the case files. Physical evidence must be described in detail in the examination report. If necessary and possible, its essential features shall be photographed or recorded in a video recording or in another similar manner, after which they shall be sealed. Electronic evidence shall mean the information in electronic (digital) form containing data on the circumstances relevant to the case. Originals or copies of electronic evidence shall be stored in court in the case files. Expert conclusion shall mean a detailed description of the research conducted by the expert, the resulting conclusions and substantiated experts' answers. The court has the right at the request of the case parties or on its own initiative to summon an expert to provide oral explanations on his/her opinion. Issues of law cannot be the subject of the expert conclusion. The expert conclusion shall be set out in writing and attached to the case. The court may order several expert examinations, additional or repeated expert examination. The questions posed to the expert and his conclusion thereon may not go beyond the expert's special knowledge. The expert appointed by the court shall immediately inform the court of the impossibility to conduct the expert examination due to the lack of necessary knowledge or without the involvement of other experts. The procedure for conducting the expert examination and drawing up the expert conclusions based on the results of the conducted expert examination shall be determined under the current legislation of Ukraine on conducting forensic expert examinations. An expert who has drawn up a conclusion on the application of a case party shall have the same rights and obligations as an expert who carries out an expert examination on the basis of a court ruling. The materials necessary for the expert examination shall be provided to the expert by the court. The court may also hear the experts appointed by court on the issue. The expert shall have no right on his/her own initiative to collect materials for the examination, to disclose information that became known to him/her in connection with the examination. An expert conclusion for a court shall not have the preliminary determined force and shall be evaluated by the court together with other evidence. The court's rejection of the expert conclusion must be motivated in the judgment. If an expert conclusion is incomplete or unclear, the court at the request of a case party or on its own initiative may order an additional examination that is entrusted to the same or another expert. Case parties have the right to submit to the court expert conclusion in the field of law on: 1) the application of analogy of statute, analogy of law; 2) the content of the foreign law norms in view of their official or generally accepted interpretation, practice, doctrine in the relevant foreign state. In case of filing an application for provision of evidence before filing a statement of claim, the applicant shall file a claim within ten days from the date of the ruling. A person who has filed an application on provision ofevidence shall be obliged to reimburse the court costs, as well as damages caused in connection with the provision of Evidence. An application for the provision of evidence shall be considered in a court hearing in the general manner provided for by this Code. The court may provide evidence without notifying other persons who may obtain the status of case parties. If the application is satisfied, the court shall indicate the evidence, as well as the actions that must be taken to ensure it. Damages caused by the provision of evidence shall be reimbursed in the manner prescribed by law, taking into account the provisions of Article 146 of this Code. The court shall set reasonable period for implementing the procedural actions. The period calculated in years shall end in the respective month and on the day of the last year. The right to take procedural actions shall be lost upon the expiration of the term established by law or by the court. The last day of the period shall last up to 24 hours. The period shall not be considered missed if before its expiration the application, complaint, other documents or materials or funds have been submitted by mail or transferred. The court shall summon the case parties to a court hearing or to participate in the performance of a procedural action, if it finds their appearance obligatory. A ruling of the commercial court on the date, time and venue of taking the relevant procedural action must be served in advance, so that the summoned persons have sufficient time, but not less than five days. A ruling that is used by the court to summon the trial participants to a court hearing or for participation in taking the relevant procedural action must contain: 1) name (surname, name and patronymic) of an individual or name of a legal entity, to which the ruling is addressed; 2) name and address of the court; 3) indication of the place, day and time of appearance according to the summons. A ruling on commencement of proceedings and information on postponement of case consideration or announcement of session break shall be published by the court on the official web portal of the judiciary of Ukraine. The procedure for publishing announcements on the web-portal of the Ukrainian Judiciary shall be determined by the Regulations on the Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System. The costs associated with the case consideration shall include the costs for professional legal aid, witnesses, specialists, interpreters, experts and execution of expert examination. Each party shall submit to the court a preliminary (indicative) calculation of the court costs amount that it has incurred and expects to incur due to the case. The court may determine in advance the amount of court costs (other than the costs of professional legal aid) related to case proceedings or a particular procedural action. The court may reject the petition to summon a witness, appoint an expert, involve a specialist, interpreter, provide, request for or review of evidence and to adopt the judgment. In case of non-payment of funds for professional legal aid within the period specified by the court, the court shall have the right to leave the claim without consideration at the defendant's petition. Costs related to the legal aid of a lawyer shall be borne by the parties, except in cases of providing legal aid at the expense of the state. The amount of costs for the lawyer's services shall be commensurate with the complexity of the case and the works performed by the lawyer. The burden of proving the incommensurability of the costs shall lie upon the party filing a petition to reduce the costs to be paid for the legal aid by the lawyer. An expert, specialist or interpreter shall be remunerated for works performed in relation to the case, if this is not part of their official duties. A witness shall be reimbursed for the costs of the summons related to moving to another settlement and renting accommodation. The burden of proving the incommensurability of the costs shall lie upon the party filing a petition to reduce the costs, which shall be divided between the parties. A person who has provided evidence at the request of a court shall have the right to demand payment of monetary compensation for his/her expenses. Other court costs related to the proceedings shall be borne by both sides. If the amount of court costs claimed for reimbursement significantly exceeds the amount stated in the preliminary (approximate) calculation, the court may refuse the party in whose favour the judgment was adopted to reimburse court costs in part of such excess. In case of abuse of procedural rights by a party or his or her representative, or if the dispute arose as a result of incorrect actions of a party, the court shall have the right to impose on such party the court costs in whole or in part. In case of partial satisfaction of the claim, in case of imposition of court costs on both parties in proportion to the amount of satisfied claims, the party on which a larger amount is imposed to pay the difference to the other party. The court in the relevant ruling or judgment in the manner prescribed by law, shall decide to return the plaintiff from the state budget 50 percent of the court fee paid when filing a lawsuit. In the event of the plaintiff's waiver of the claim, the costs incurred by him/her shall not be reimbursed by the defendant. The costs of the defendant relating to his/her application shall be collected from the plaintiff. The application of coercive measures to a person shall not release him/her from the performance of the obligations established by this Code. Measures of procedural coercion shall be as follows: 1) a warning; 2) removal from the courtroom; 3) temporary seizure of evidence for examination by a court; 4) fine. In case of repeated or systematic non-fulfillment of procedural obligations, recurrent or repeated abuse of procedural rights, continued non-execution of the ruling on securing the claim or evidence, the court shall impose a fine in the amount of from 5 to 50 times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons on the relevant trial participant. Security for claim allowed before filing a statement of claim and at any stage of proceedings. Measures to secure the claim, other than the seizure of a sea-going vessel, shall be commensurable to the plaintiff's claims. Court may not be allowed to secure a claim in disputes arising from corporate relations. It shall not be allowed to secure a claim by suspending the decisions (regulatory acts or individual acts) of the National Bank of Ukraine. 4) for the state authorities, local governments, the Deposit Guarantee Fund of individuals to exercise the powers entrusted to them under the law. 5) for them to make specific decisions defined by the court, to take specific actions directly related to the subject of the dispute. Property (assets), including cash, of a client of a bank seized by a court may be transferred to the host or transitional bank. Measures to secure the claim must not violate the rights of other shareholders (participants) of a company. The application for securing a claim shall be filed before filing a statement of claim, according to the rules of jurisdiction established by this Code. An application for the seizure of a seagoing vessel shall be filed at the location of the port of registration of the vessel. The application of the security for claim shall be submitted in writing, signed by the applicant and shall stipulate the following: name of the court where the application is filed. An application for securing a claim in the form of seizure of a seagoing vessel shall be submitted in writing and shall stipulate the following: name of the court where the application is filed. Full name (for legal entity) or name (surname, name and patronymic for individual) of a person who is responsible for the maritime claim, their location, postal codes, identification code of the legal entity and contact details. An application for securing the claim in the form of seizure of a seagoing vessel shall be considered by the court no later than two days from the date of its receipt after its submission. The court may summon the person who filed the application to provide explanations or additional evidence confirming the need to secure the claim. A counter-security is carried out by depositing money in the deposit account of the court in the amount determined by the court. If the plaintiff is not able to pay the appropriate amount due to a reasonable excuse, the counter- security may also be applied by: provision of a bank guarantee, surety or other financial security. Counter-securing shall not apply to claims of the Individual Deposit Guarantee Fund filed by it within the procedure of excluding an insolvent bank from the market. Cancellation of counter-security may be revoked by the court at the reasoned request of the defendant or another person whose rights or legally protected interests are violated. The court may allow the replacement of one measure to secure the claim with another. The funds deposited by the person on the court's deposit account for the purpose of counter-security shall be returned to the person who provided such counter- security within five days from the date of the court decision. The court may cancel measures to secure the claim on its own initiative or at the reasoned request of the case party. A copy of the decision to replace one security measure with another immediately after the entry into force of such decision shall be sent to the applicant, all persons affected by the security measures and whom the court can identify. The measures to secure the claim shall continue to apply within ninety days from the date of entry into force of the said judgment or may be revoked at the reasoned petition of the case party. The funds deposited by the defendant (another person) on the court's account in order to secure. the claim under Part 4, Article 143 of this Code shall be returned to the defendant. A court order shall mean a special form of a judgment issued by a court following the consideration of the requirements provided for in Article 148 of this Code. A person who has the right of claim may file an application to get a court order. The applicant and the debtor in the writ proceedings may be legal entities and individual entrepreneurs. Court fee in the amount established by law shall be charged for submission of an application for issuance of a court order. The applicant shall have the right to withdraw the application before its consideration by the court. If the application is submitted to the debtor who has a registered official e-mail address, the applicant shall subsequently submit any procedural and other documents related to the consideration of their application exclusively in electronic form. A judge shall refuse to issue a court order if: 1) the application was submitted in violation of the requirements of Article 150 of this Code, or if the application is not signed or is signed by a person who is not entitled to sign it. The amount of the court fee paid for submission of an application for issuance of aCourt order shall be included in the amount of court fee determined for filing a claim. In case of refusal to issue court order or in case of cancellation of court order, court fee not returned to debt recoverer. The court shall consider the application for issuance of a court order within five days from the date of its receipt. The consideration shall be held without a court hearing and notification of the applicant and the debtor. A court order shall not be subject to appeal, but it may be revoked in the manner prescribed by this section. Full name (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic) (for individuals) of the recoverer and the debtor, their location (forlegal entities) and place of residence or stay. Identification code of a legal entity in the Unified State Register of Enterprises and Organisations of Ukraine. The amount of funds to be recovered; the amount of court costs paid by the applicant. The court shall send its copy (text) containing the information on the web-address of such a decision to the debtor to his/her official e-mail address. The debtor shall have the right within fifteen days from the date of service of a copy of the court order and the documents attached to it to submit an application for its cancellation. An application for revocation of a court order shall be submitted to the judge appointed under the procedure established by Article 32 of this Code. The application shall be signed by the debtor or his/her representative. The judge shall issue a ruling on its return not later than two days from the date of its receipt by the court. The court may amend the court order, declare it unenforceable or postpone or reschedule or change the method or procedure of its execution in the manner prescribed by Articles 328, 331 of this Code. The court may allow a case party to submit additional explanations on a particular issue that arose during the proceedings. 1) full name (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic, for individuals) of the parties and other case parties. 2) indication of the cost of claim, if the claim is subject to monetary valuation; reasonable calculation of amounts collected or disputed. 3) the content of claims: the method (methods) of protection of rights or interests provided by law or contract. The cost of claim shall be determined as follows: 1) in lawsuits for recovery of funds, it shall be equal to the amount that is collected. 2) in claims for recognition of the right of ownership to the property or a request for it, the value of the property shall be the total amount of all claims. 3) in case of increase of the size of claims or change of the claim subject, the unpaid amount of the court fee shall be paid. The defence shall contain: 1) title (name) of the plaintiff and case number; 2) full name (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic) (for individuals), postal code, identification code of the legal entity in the Unified State Register of Enterprises of Enterprises and Organisations of Ukraine. 3) the circumstances recognised by the defendant, as well as the legal evaluation of the circumstances provided by the plaintiff, with which the defendant agrees; 5) objections (if any) to the circumstances and legal grounds of the claim. If the defence does not indicate the defendant's disagreement with any of the circumstances, on which the claims are based, the defendant shall be deprived of the right to object to such a circumstance. The defence shall be filed within the period established by the court, which may not be less than fifteen days from the date of service of the decision to initiate proceedings. The court should set a period for filing a response to the defence. This will allow the plaintiff to prepare his/her considerations, arguments and relevant evidence. It will also allow the other case parties to receive a defence in advance before the trial on the merits. The defendant can provide objections to the case parties. Application, petitions and objections shall be submitted and considered under the procedure established by this Code. In cases when this Code does not provide for such a procedure, it is established by the court. Written statement, petition or objection shall be signed by the applicant or his/her representative. Evidence of their sending (provision) to other case parties (parties to the proceedings) shall be attached. The claim shall be submitted by means of filing a statement of claim with the court of first instance, where it shall be registered and given to the judge no later than the next day. The court may, taking into account the provisions of Part 1 of this Article, combine several cases into one proceeding on the claims. Cases being considered by the commercial court, in case of combining them into one proceeding, shall be transferred for consideration to the judge who opened the proceedings before the other judges. If the proceedings were opened on the same day, the cases, if they are combined into one. proceeding,. shall be referred to theJudge who first decided to combine them. Statement is submitted by a person without a procedural dispositive legal capacity. If the rules for combining claims have been violated. If there are no grounds for a prosecutor to apply to a court in the interests of the state. If a ruling to open or refuse to open proceedings, return the statement of claim or leave the claim without consideration is not adopted. The rules of this Part shall not apply to statements on securing the evidence or statements of claim. A judge shall refuse to open the proceedings if: 1) the application is not subject to consideration under the rules of commercial proceedings; 2) there is an enforced judgment or ruling to close the proceedings between the same parties; or there is a court order that has entered into force. The court shall open proceedings within five days from the date of receipt of the statement of claim or statement on elimination of deficiencies filed under Article 174 of this Code. The decision to refuse to open proceedings in the case may be appealed. In case of revocation of this ruling, the claim shall be considered submitted on the day of the initial appeal to the court. The court may also use the data of the Unified State Demographic Register for the purpose of determining jurisdiction. The ruling to initiate proceedings in the case shall be sent to the case parties, as well as to other persons, if evidence is requested from them. Information on the place of residence (stay) of an individual shall be provided within five days from the moment of receipt by the relevant authority. If the information received by the court does not make it possible to establish the place of residence (stay) of the individual registered under the procedure established by law, the court shall decide on the opening of proceedings in the case. The tasks of the preparatory proceedings shall be as follows: final determination of the subject of the dispute and the nature of the disputed legal relations, claims and composition of the trial participants. Third parties who do not state independent claims on the subject matter of the dispute shall have the right to submit written explanations on the claim or defence. If the defendant fails to provide a defence within the period prescribed by the court without a reasonable excuse, the court shall consider the dispute based on the available case materials. A preparatory hearing shall be held by the court with a notification to be sent to the case parties. The court: 1) shall announce the composition of the court, as well as the surnames of the secretary, interpreter, specialist. 2) shall find out whether the parties wish to conclude a settlement agreement, refer the case to arbitration court, international commercial arbitration or apply to the court for settlement of the dispute with the participation of a judge. The court shall set a deadline for the submission of explanations by third parties and responses of case parties to such explanations. 13) shall establish the period and procedure for settling the dispute with the participation of a judge upon the party's consent to execute it. 16) shall determine the amount of court costs claimed by the parties. The court may announce a break in the preparatory hearing if necessary, in particular in the following cases: replacement of the assigned expert, interpreter, specialist; non-fulfilment by a case party of the requirements set out in the ruling to open the proceedings in the case. The court shall issue a ruling (rulings) on procedural actions that must be taken before the end of the proceedings and the beginning of the trial. Court shall clarify the party's opinion regarding the date of the hearing to consider the case on the merits. Dispute settlement with the participation of a judge shall not be allowed in disputes (cases): 1) on restoration of solvency of a debtor or their recognition as a bankrupt; 2) on approval of plans to financial recovery of the debtor. The judge shall direct the settlement of the dispute with the participation of the judge in order for the parties to reach a settlement. The judge may suggest to the parties a possible way of peaceful dispute settlement. If necessary, an interpreter may be involved in the hearing. The information received by either party as well as by the judge during the dispute shall be confidential. A ruling on the termination of settlement of a dispute with the participation of a judge shall be issued, which shall not be subject to appeal. Concurrently, the judge shall resolve the issue on the resumption of proceedings. Plaintiff's withdrawal of a claim, defendant's recognition of a claims. A settlement agreement shall be concluded by the parties for the purpose of settlement a dispute on the basis of mutual concessions. In a settlement agreement, the parties may go beyond the subject of the dispute, provided that the settlement agreement does not violate the rights or legally protected interests of third parties. If the defendant recognises the claim upon the due legal grounds, the court shall adopt a judgment to satisfy the claim. The court shall refuse to accept the defendant's recognition of the claim and shall continue the trial. The court shall consider and resolve the dispute by virtue of the materials collected in the preparatory proceedings, as well as to distribute the court costs. In case of non-enforcement of the settlement agreement approved by the court, the court ruling may be submitted for its enforcement in the manner prescribed by law for the enforcement of judgments. The parties may participate in the hearing by videoconference outside the courtroom using their own technical means. The identity of the case party shall be verified by means of an electronic signature. Trial participants should be able to hear and see the progress of the trial. The technical means and technologies used by the court and the participants in the judicial proceedings must ensure the proper quality of the image and sound. The court considering the case shall record the videoconference by means of technical means of video and audio recording. All persons present in the courtroom shall hear the judgment standing up. The trial participants, as well as other persons present at the court hearing, shall address the court with the words ‘Your Honour’ The issue of bringing a party to the case or another person present in the courtroom to justice for contempt of court shall be decided by the court. Non-appearance at a court hearing of any case party, provided that he/she has been duly notified of the date, time and place of that hearing, shall not preclude consideration of the case on the merits. The court shall hear the case in the absence of such a case party due to the following. Non-appearance of the case party without reasonable excuses or without communicating the reasons for non-appearances. Non of the plaintiff at the court hearing without a reasonable excuse or their failure to notify of the reasons. The consequences specified in Parts 3 and 4 of this Article shall also commence. The court shall leave without consideration statements and petitions which have not been filed in the preparatory proceedings or within another term determined by the court against a reasonable excuse. Witnesses shall be excluded from the courtroom to the premises set aside for this purpose without being able to get acquainted with the course of the court hearing. The presiding judge may withdraw issues that do not relate to the subject of the dispute. The court may change the procedure for clarification of the case circumstances and examination of evidence during consideration. Written, physical and electronic evidence shall be examined in court, except as provided by this Code, and presented to the case parties at their request. The first person to ask a question shall be the person at whose petition the expert was summoned. A witness may be interrogated repeatedly or simultaneously with another witness to determine the reasons for the discrepancy between their testimony and the testimony of other witnesses. A witness who is unable to appear in court due to illness, old age, disability or other reasonable excuse shall be interrogated by the court at his/her place of residence (stay) The court may postpone the case consideration in the events established by Part 2 of Article 202 of this Code. The specialist may be asked questions on the merits of the oral consultations or written explanations provided. The explanations set out in writing and signed by the specialist shall be attached to the case file. If the consideration of the case is postponed, the court shall interrogate the witnesses who appeared. The court shall note the completion of clarifying the circumstances and verifying them with evidence in the minutes of the court hearing. The procedure, duration of judicial debate and the order of speeches of the case parties shall be determined by the presiding judge. The right of a closing remark shall always belong to the defendant and his/her representative. The court shall make a full recording of the court hearing by means of video and (or) sound recording equipment in the manner prescribed by the Regulations on the Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System. If there are objections from any of the trial participants against the full recording with the help of video recording equipment, such recording shall be carried out only by Means of audio recording equipment. The case parties have the right to review the technical record of the trial, the minutes of the court hearing and submit to the court written comments on incompleteness or inaccuracy of theTechnical record. The minutes shall be signed by the presiding judge and the secretary of the case and attached to the case. Comments on the incompleteness or inaccuracy of the minutes of an individual procedural action shall be submitted to the court within five days from the date of its signing. The court shall leave the claim without consideration if: 1) the claim is filed by a person who does not have procedural dispositive legal capacity; 2) the statement of claim was not signed or was signed by a. person who doesn't have the right to sign it; 3) in the proceedings of this or other court there is a case of a dispute between the same parties, on the same subject. The court shall deliver a ruling on the issues specified in this Article. The ruling to leave the claim without consideration may be appealed. A person whose claim has been left without consideration shall have the right to apply to the court again. The court shall be obliged to suspend the proceedings in the case of: 1) death or declaration as dead of an individual who was a case party. The court may, at the request of a party to the case, as well as on its own initiative, suspend the proceedings in the following cases: alternative (non-military) service of the case party not at the place of residence, or the compulsory military service. The court shall deliver a ruling on the issues specified in this Article.  Proceedings in the case shall be resumed at the request of the case parties or at the initiative of the court no later than ten days from the date of receipt by the court of the notice of elimination of the circumstances that caused its suspension. The commercial court shall close the proceedings if: 1) the dispute is not subject to resolution in commercial proceedings; 2) there is no subject of the dispute. If the proceedings are closed on the grounds specified in Paragraph 1, Part 1 of this Article, the court must explain to the plaintiff about the court, whose jurisdiction is subject to consideration of the case. The court of appeal or court of cassation must also tell the plaintiff that he/she shall have the right to refer the case to the established jurisdiction. Trial ends with the delivery of a ruling, adoption of a resolution or issuance of a court order. If several interrelated independent claims are combined in one proceeding, the court may adopt a partial decision on any claim. The court may decide on the distribution of court costs in an additional judgment after the judgment on the merits of the case has been adopted. The judgments shall be set out in electronic form using the Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System. They will be signed by an electronic digital signature of a judge (if a case is considered by panel of judges, it shall besigned by all judges who are members of the panel) A reasoned decision shall mean the decision made on the basis of fully and comprehensively clarified circumstances, supported by the evidence that was examined at the hearing. If one of the parties has acknowledged the claim filed against them during the trial in whole or in part, the decision on this party shall be made in accordance with such recognition. The operative part of the judgment shall contain: 1) the conclusion of the court on the claim satisfaction or the claim dismissal in whole or in part in respect of each of the stated claims; 2) distribution of court costs; 3) the term and procedure for the entry into force of the Judgment and its appeal; 4) full name (for legal entities) or name ( for individuals) of the parties and other case participants. The final amount of interest (late charge) in this case shall be calculated according to the rules specified in the judgment. If the court invalidates the loan contract in which the borrower's performance of their obligations is secured by a pledge of property, the court shall seize such property. Such seizure may be lifted on the grounds provided for by law. The judgment shall be pronounced in a court hearing, which concludes the consideration of the case, in public, except in cases established by this Code. When pronouncing the judgment, the judge shall not announce the following information regarding the case parties: place of residence, telephone numbers or other means of communication. The judgment that has entered into force shall be binding upon the person in whose interests the case was initiated. Full duplicate judgments shall be served to the case parties who were present at the court hearing immediately after the judgment was pronounced. The day of service of the judgment shall be: 1) the day ofService of the Judgment against a receipt; 2) the date of receipt by the court of the notification on service of a duplicate judgment to the official e-mail address of the person. The court may, on its own initiative or at the request of the case parties, correct clerical errors or arithmetic errors made in the judgment or ruling. The judgment (full or brief) on the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings on the day of its pronouncement shall be sent to the persons conducting clearing activities to the official e-mail address of such persons. The court that adopted the judgment may, at the request of the case parties or on its own initiative, adopt an additional judgment. The ruling on entering corrections shall be sent to all persons to whom a judgment containing clerical errors or arithmetic errors has been issued or has been sent. If necessary, the court may summon the parties to a court hearing. The court shall consider the application for clarification of the judgment in the order in which the relevant judgment was adopted. If necessary, the court may summon the case parties, public or private executor at the court hearing. Failure to appear at the hearing of persons who have been duly notified of the date, time and place of the hearing shall not preclude consideration of the application. A separate decision may be issued by a court of first instance, court of appeal or court of cassation. A separate ruling of the Supreme Court shall not be subject to appeal. The court of higher instance may issue a separate ruling in case the court of lower instance violates the rules of substantive or procedural law. Court shall consider cases by way of simplified action proceedings within a reasonable period, but not more than sixty days from the date of the opening of the proceedings. Disputes arising from relations that are related to the protection of economic competition, restriction of monopoly in economic activities, protection against unfair competition. Dispute between a legal entity and its official (including an official whose powers were terminated) on compensation. Consideration of a case by way of simplified action proceedings shall be carried out by a court under the rules established by this Code. The defence shall be filed within fifteen days from the date of service of the ruling to open the case proceedings. The plaintiff shall have the right to submit to the court a response to defence. Consideration of the case on the merits by way of simplified proceedings shall commence with the opening of the first court hearing. The court may postpone the case in order to provide additional time to file a response to the defence and (or) objection, if they have not been submitted before the first hearing for a reasonable excuse. Court of appeal in commercial cases shall mean the commercial court of appeal, within the appellate district of which there is the local commercial court that has adopted a judgment subject to appeal. Supreme Court shall review on appeal the judgments of the commercial courts of appeal rendered by them as courts of first instance. Appeals against court rulings not provided for in Article 255 of this Code shall not be allowed separately from a judgment. 6) on return of the application to the plaintiff (applicant); 7) on refusal to initiate proceedings in the case; 8) on referral of the case to another court; 9) on the refusal to renew or extend the missed procedural period. 10) on approval of the settlement agreement; 11) on appointment of expert evaluation. Appeals against judgments of the court of first instance may be filed by the case parties in accordance with this Code and the Law of Ukraine “On Restoring a Debtor's Solvency or Recognising It Bankrupt”. Objections to the rulings that are not subject to appeal separately from the judgment shall be included in the appeal against the judgment. An appeal shall be registered on the day of its receipt by the court of appeal and not later than the next day shall be transferred to the judge-rapporteur determined under the procedure established by Article 32 of this Code. A person filing the appeal shall send to the other case parties a copy of this appeal and the documents attached to it, which they do not have, by letter. An appeal shall also be left without motion if it has been filed after the expiration of the periods established by Article 256 of this Code and the person who filed it does not raise the issue of renewal of this period. If the application is not filed by the person within the specified period or the grounds for renewal of the period for appeal are deemed unreasonable, the court shall refuse to open appeal proceedings. The court of appeal shall refuse to open appeal proceedings if the appeal is filed after the expiration of one year from the date when the full text of a judgment has been executed. The issue on opening of appellate proceedings in the case shall be resolved no later than five days after the date of receipt of the appeal or application for elimination of deficiencies. The absence of a defence to the appeal shall not preclude the review of the judgment adopted by the court of first instance. If the appeal is filed with a delay of period specified by this Code, the court in case of renewal of the period for appeal shall suspend the validity of the appealed judgment. Case parties have the right to join the appeal lodged by the person by whose side they acted. The court of appeal shall issue a ruling on the closure of the appellate proceedings, which may be appealed in cassation procedure. A person who has filed an appeal shall have theright to supplement or change it within the period for appeal. If it is established that the judgment adopted by the commercial court of first instance may affect the rights and obligations of a person who did not participate in the trial, he/she shall involve such a person into the trial as a third party who shall not make independent claims. The court of appeal shall review the case based on the evidence available in it and additionally submitted. The court of appeal shall examine the evidence concerning the facts to which the case parties refer in the appeal and (or) the defence to it. Evidence that has not been submitted to the court of first instance shall be accepted by the court only in exceptional cases if the case party has provided evidence of the impossibility to submit it. Appeals against judgments of the commercial court in cases with a claim value less than 100 times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons, except for those that are not subject to simplified action proceedings, shall be considered by the court of appeal without notifying the litigants. After the judicial debate end, the court shall leave to the deliberation room. Appeal against a judgment of the court of first instance shall be considered within 60 days from the date of delivery of the ruling to open appeal proceedings in the case. The court of appeal shall consider the appeal referred to in Part 1 of this Article within the scope of arguments that were not considered during the appellate case consideration upon the appeal of another person. The court of appeal has the right: 1) to leave the judgment unchanged and dismiss the appeal; 2) to revoke the judgment in whole or in part and adopt a new judgment in the relevant part or change the judgment; 3) to declare invalid the judgment adopted by the court of first instance. Vandalism of the rules of procedural law may be grounds for revocation or change of a judgment, if this violation has led to incorrect case resolution. Incorrect application of substantive law shall mean: misinterpretation of the law, or application of theLaw that is not applicable, or non-application of law that was applicable. If the court of appeal closes the proceedings by virtue of Paragraph 1, Part 1, Article 231 of this Code, the court on the plaintiff's application under written proceedings shall decide to transfer the case. If there are grounds for the jurisdiction of the case, the plaintiff in his/her application shall indicate only one court, whose jurisdiction includes the resolution of the dispute. The court of appeal shall adopt judgments in the form of resolutions in accordance with the requirements defined in Article 34 and Chapter 9, Section III of this Code. The resolution or ruling of the appellate court shall be executed by the judge-rapporteur and signed by all judges defined to consider the case. The resolution of the court of appeal may be appealed under cassation procedure in the cases provided for by this Code. The Supreme Court shall be the. court of cassation in consideration of commercial cases. The right of litigants, as well as persons who did not participate in the case, if the court has decided on their rights, interests and (or) obligations, shall have the right to file an appeal. 1) Rulings of the court of first instance following their appeal review. 2) Court of appeal rulings on refusal to open or close appellate proceedings, on return of appeal, on suspension of proceedings on securing the claim, on counter-securing, on clarification of judgment or a refusal to clarify the judgment, on entry or refusing to enter the correction in the judgment. 3) Ruling on the replacement of a case party, on the imposition of a fine under the procedural coercion, separate rulings. The grounds for cassation appeal of judgments referred to in Paragraphs 2, 3, Part 1 of this Article shall be the incorrect application by the court of substantive law or violation of procedural law. A person who did not participate in the case, if the court has decided on their rights, interests and (or) obligations, shall have the right to file an appeal. The period for cassation appeal may also be renewed in case of omission for other valid reasons, except for the cases specified in Part 4, Article 293 of this Code. The appeal shall be filed in written form. It shall contain the judgment of the Supreme Court, containing the conclusion on the rule of law. The cassation appeal shall be signed by the person filing the appeal or their representative. A power-of-attorney or other document certifying the authority of the representative shall be attached to the appeal. The appeal shall also indicate the grounds for exemption from payment of court fees under the law. A person's application for renewal of the period for cassation appeal shall be considered by a panel of judges of the court of cassation. If the application has not been filed by the person within the specified period, the court shall refuse to initiate cassation proceedings under Paragraph 4, Part 1, Article 293 of this Code. Court may recognise the cassation appeal unjustified and refuse to initiate cassation proceedings, if the correct application of the rule of law is obvious and does not cause reasonable doubt about its application or interpretation. Court of cassation shall refuse to open appeal proceedings if appeal is filed after the expiration of one year from the date when full text of a judgment has been executed. The court of cassation shall deliver a ruling to commence cassation proceedings in the case indicating the date, time and venue of the appeal consideration, as well as a request of case files. Case parties shall have the right to file an objection against the commencement of the proceedings. A duplicate ruling to refuse to open cassated proceedings together with the materials attached to the appeal shall be sent to the person who filed the cassation appeal. The court of cassation shall close the cassation proceedings if the person who filed the appeal has lodged a petition to withdraw the appeal. The absence of a defence to the appeal shall not preclude the review of judgments (judgment). Evidence of sending duplicates of the defence and attached documents to other case parties shall be attached to the defence. Case parties have the right to join the cassation appeal lodged by the person by whose side they acted. Persons who did not participate in the trial also have theRight to Join the Cassation appeal, if the court has decided on their rights, interests and (or) obligation. An application for joining a cassated appeal may be filed before the beginning of consideration of the case. The court of cassation shall not have the right to establish or consider proven circumstances that were not established in the judgment or resolution of the court or were rejected by it. The court shall not be limited to the arguments and requirements of the cassation appeal, if during consideration of the case a violation of procedure law has been detected. The court of cassation may consider appeals referred to in Parts 4 and 5 of this Article in a court hearing with notification (summons) of the case parties. A court which considers a case under cassation procedure before a panel of judges shall refer the case to a chamber to which such a panel is a member. A court which considers a case under cassation procedure before a panel of judges, a chamber or a joint chamber shall refer the case to the Grand Chamber if such a panel deems it necessary to derogate from the conclusion on the application of the rule of law in such legal relations. The case shall be referred if a case party lodges an appeal against the judgment on the grounds of violation of the rules of subject-matter or personal jurisdiction. The issue of referring a case for consideration to a chamber, a joint chamber, or the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court shall be resolved by a majority of judges considering the case. A judge who does not agree with the judgment to refer (refuse to refer) a case shall state his/her separate opinion in writing in the ruling. The rulings adopted by courts of first instance and appellate courts may be appealed under cassation procedure in the cases provided for in Clauses 2, 3, Part 1, Article 287 of this Code. Appeals against rulings that are not subject to appeal separately from the judgment adopted by the court shall be included in the cassation appeal against the relevant judgment or resolution. The court of cassation has the right to cancel the judgments of the courts of first instance and courts of appeal in whole or in part and transfer the case for a new consideration. A cassation appeal against judgment provided for in Clauses 1, 4, Part 1, Article 287 of this Code shall be considered within sixty days, and against rulings within thirty days from the date of the adoption of a ruling. The court of cassation shall dismiss the cassation appeal and leave the judgments unchanged. A substantively correct and lawful judgment cannot be revoked for formal reasons alone. Judgments shall be subject to compulsory revocation with the referral of the case for reconsideration if: 1) the case has been considered and resolved by an unauthorised court. A court may revoke a judgment in whole or in part and adopt a new judgment in the relevant part or amend it if such a judgment has been adopted through incorrectly applied rules of the substantive law and violation of the procedure law. The case shall be referred for the reconsideration to the court of appeal, if the violations of procedural law have been committed by this court. The court of cassation shall revoke the resolution adopted by the appellate court in whole or in part. A change in a judgment may consist in supplementing or changing its reasoning and (or) operative parts. Violation of the rules of the commercial courts jurisdiction, defined in Articles 20–23 of this Code, shall be a mandatory ground for revocation of the decision. The court of cassation shall adopt judgments in the form of resolutions in accordance with the requirements defined in Article 34 and Chapter 9, Section III of this Code. The resolution or ruling of the court of Cassation shall be executed by the judge-rapporteur and signed by all judges who considered the case, unless otherwise provided for by the Code. The resolution of a chamber, a joint chamber, the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court shall contain a conclusion on how exactly the rule of law shall be applied. The resolution adopted by the court of cassation shall be pronounced under the rules established by Article 240 of this Code. Judges, resolutions and rulings of the commercial court, the High Intellectual Property Court, as well as rulings in bankruptcy (insolvency) cases, may be revised due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances. Grounds for review of judgments due to the exceptional circumstances shall be: the unconstitutionality of the law, other legal act or separate provision that were applied (not applied) by a court while considering a case. The following shall not be grounds for the review of a judgment based on newly-discovered circumstances: re-evaluation of the evidence evaluated by the court in the process of consideration of the case. The court may not go beyond the claims that were the subject of consideration when adopting the judgment under review. An application for review of a judgment due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances may be filed not later than three years from the date of entry into force of such a judgement. The periods specified in Part 2 of this Article may not be renewed. An application for the review of  a judgment adopted by the court of first instance on the grounds specified in Clause 2, Part 3, Article 320 of this Code shall be submitted to the court. The following shall be attached to the application: 1) documents confirming the sending to other case parties of a copy of the application and the documents attached to it. 2) a document on payment of the court fee; 3) evidence confirming the existence of newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances. 4) a petition of a person requesting a duplicate judgement adopted by an international judicial institution whose jurisdiction is recognised in Ukraine. 5) A petition to renew a period for filing an application, if it has been missed. A person who has filed an application for review of a judgment due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances may waive of such an application before commencement of case consideration in court. If the waiver of the application is accepted, the court shall close the proceedings. Other case parties may request the compensation by the person who filed it, for the court costs incurred by them during the review of the judgement. In case of dismissal of the application for review of the judgment, ruling, resolution due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances, the court shall adopt the ruling. Failure to comply with a judgment shall be the basis for liability established by law. The judgements that have entered into force shall be binding on the entire territory of Ukraine. An order, a court order, and a judgment in the cases established by this Code, shall be the enforcement documents. The basis for the entity of state registration of legal entities, individual entrepreneurs and public associations of the judgment that has come into legal force, will be its duplicate in the electronic form. The court that issued the enforcement document may, at the request of the recoverer or the debtor, correct the error made in its execution or issuance. Regulation on the Unified State Register of Enforcement Documents shall be approved by a joint regulatory act of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine. The court shall issue a ruling on the correction of an error in the enforcement document and its recognition as unenforceable. If the recovery under such an enforcement document has already taken place in full or in part, the court shall concurrently while resolving these issues at the request of the debtor collect in his/her favour unreasonably received recovery. The court that considered the case as a court of first instance may postpone the enforcement of a judgment or extend the period of its enforcement. At the request of the recoverer or executor (in cases established by law), the court may determine or change the method or procedure. The court shall also take into account the degree of guilt of the defendant in the dispute. The court of appeal or court of cassation shall decide on the reversal of enforcement. If by revocation of a judgment it: 1) closes the proceedings in the case; 2) leaves the claim without consideration; 3) dismisses the claim in full; 4) satisfies the claims to a lesser extent. An application for reversal of enforcement of a judgment may be filed within one year from the date when the relevant judgment has been adopted by the court of appeal or court of cassation. The non-appearance of the case parties and other persons shall not preclude resolution of the issue on replacing a party to the enforcement proceedings. The court that considered the case as a court of first instance may apply the foreclosure on the money belonging to the person owing to a debtor. At the recoverer's request the court may seize money in accounts (deposits) or in custody in banks or other financial institutions. The application shall be considered by the court within ten days from the date of its receipt. The court may deliver a ruling on temporary restraint of the right to leave Ukraine of an individual who is a debtor under a judgment not executed by them, for a period until full execution of such judgment. The court shall immediately consider such a recommendation without notifying the parties and other interested persons in consultation of state (private) executor. Appeal may be filed within ten days from the day when a person learned or should have learned about the violation of their right. The court shall notify the relevant body of the state executive service, private executor of the appeal filed, no later than the next day after its receipt by the court. The court costs related to the appeal consideration shall be borne by the applicant, if a judgment was adopted to dismiss his/her appeal. The relevant body of the state executive service, the private executor shall notify the court and the applicant on the enforcement of a ruling adopted by virtue of the considered appeal. Application for revocation of the arbitral award filed in violation of the requirements specified in this Article. Rules of Article 174 of this Code shall apply to an application for revocation. The application may contain other information if it is relevant for the consideration of this application (contact details, fax numbers, e-mail address of the parties and the arbitration court). The case on appealing the arbitral award shall be considered by the judge alone within 30 days from the date of receipt by the commercial court of the application. Non-appearance of the persons duly notified of the date, time and place of the hearing, shall not impede the consideration of the case. When considering the case in court, the court shall establish the presence or absence of grounds for revocation. The court shall adopt a ruling on a joint consideration of such applications and combining them into one proceeding. Revocation by the commercial court of the arbitral award shall not deprive a party of the right to re-apply to the arbitration court, unless otherwise provided for by law. The commercial court ruling to revoke the arbitral award or to refuse to revoke it may be appealed under the appellate procedure provided for the appeal of a judgment of the court of first instance. The court ruling by virtue of the considered application on cancellation of the arbitRAL award, if it has not been appealed under appellate procedure, shall enter into force after period for appeal expires. Full title (for legal entities) or names (surname, name and patronymic for individuals) of the case parties in the arbitration proceedings. The applicant's request for the issuance of an order of enforcement for arbitral award enforcement. The application may contain other information if it is relevant for the consideration of this application. The application on the issuance of an order of enforcement for the arbitral award compulsory enforcement shall be considered by the judge sitting alone within fifteen days from the date of its receipt at the court hearing. Non-appearance of the parties, duly notified of the date, time and place of the trial, shall not preclude the consideration of the application. Any party to the arbitration proceedings in a due manner and period shall have the right to apply to the court to revoke this award and request to consider it together with the application on granting permission to enforce this award. The court shall adopt a ruling on joint consideration of the application for the issuance of an order of enforcement for the arbitral award compulsory enforcement. The commercial court shall adopt a ruling on issuance of an order of enforcement for the arbitral award compulsory enforcement or on refusal to issue a writ of enforcement. The commercial court ruling may be appealed by the parties in the appellate procedure determined for appealing the judgments of the court of first instance. The dispute between the parties may be resolved by the commercial court under general procedure. Lost judicial proceedings may be restored at the request of a case party or on the initiative of the court. An application for full or partial restoration of the lost judicial proceedings shall be submitted in writing to the court which considered the case as a court of first instance. The application shall be accompanied by documents or copies thereof (even if they are not duly certified) kept by the applicant or in the case. Non-compliance with the requirements for the content of the application, leaving the application without consideration or refusal to open proceedings on the application will lead to the application being returned to the court. The court shall take into account: a) the part of the case that has survived (separate volumes, badges, materials from the court archives, etc.); b) documents sent (issued) by the court to trial participants and other persons before the loss of theCase. The court may interrogate witnesses of the persons who were present during the proceedings, participants in the case (their representatives), and if necessary, the members of the court hearing the case. The court shall adopt a ruling on the restoration of the lost judicial proceedings fully or in a certain part deemed by it as necessary for restoration. The jurisdiction of the courts in cases involving foreign nationals shall be determined by this Code, law or international treaty ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. Article 367. Application of commercial courts with a court order to a foreign court or other competent authority of a foreign state. The court instruction for the provision of legal aid shall be made in Ukrainian. A certified translation to the official language of an appropriate state shall be attached to the court instruction. If it is not possible to enforce the court order, the court, in the manner prescribed by an international treaty, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada, shall return such an order to a foreign court. The foreign court order as to the serving of a court summons or other documents shall be enforced within the court hearing or by the authorised court officer. The court summons referred to enforce the order of a foreign court to serve documents shall contain information on the consequences of refusal to receive documents. If a person refuses to receive the court summons, which shall be served upon the foreign court instruction, the judge will make an appropriate mark on the documents. A court instruction for serving documents to the citizen of Ukraine, who lives on the territory of a foreign state, may be executed by the employees of diplomatic mission or consular post of Ukraine in the relevant state. The document shall be served against a receipt with a notice as to the date of receipt. Coercive measures shall not apply for the execution of court instruction. Part 4 of Article 3, Parts 1 and 2 of Article 20 (in terms of determining the jurisdiction of the High Intellectual Property Court) shall come into force on the day following the day of publication in the Holos Ukrayiny newspaper of the announcement of the commencement of operation of the court. Part 10, Article 238 of this Code shall enter into force 1 January 2019. Application for review of judgments by the Supreme Court of Ukraine in commercial cases, which have been submitted and pending before this version of the Code entered into force, shall be transferred to the Commercial Court of Cassation. Such applications shall be considered without notifying and summoning the case parties, unless the court, in view of the circumstances, decides otherwise. A court considering a case under cassation procedure as a member of a panel of judges or a chamber (joint chamber) shall refer the case to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court if such a panel or chamber deems it necessary to derogate from the conclusion on the application of the rule of law in such legal relations. The case shall be returned (transferred) to the relevant panel of Judges or the chamber for consideration, subject to adoption of a ruling.  applications and appeals submitted before this version of the Code enters into force shall be considered under the rules that are effective after it is in force. Such applications or appeals may not be left without motion, returned or transferred to jurisdiction. The High Intellectual Property Court shall commence its operation on the day following the day of publication in the Holos Ukrayiny newspaper of the announcement of commencement of operation of the court. Determination of a judge or panel of judges (judge-rapporteur) for consideration of a specific case shall be carried out. Appeals and cassation appeals shall be filed by the case parties or through the relevant courts. In case of violation of the procedure for filing an appeal or cassation appeal, the relevant court shall return such appeal without consideration. If the case is not available in the relevant court, the court shall request for the case from the lower court within five days from the date of receipt of the application. In case of filing an appeal against the rulings adopted by the courts of the first instance provided for in Clauses 1, 6–8, 10, 12–14, 17, 19, 21, 31–33, Part 1, Article 255 of this Code. The Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System shall start functioning 90 days after the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine publishes the announcement on the establishment and operation of the system. 17.12) the court shall be obliged to suspend the proceedings of the case until the ruling is reviewed under the appellate or cassation proceedings, if under sub-clause 17.10. The duplicate court rulings shall be issued by the court. The court that considered the case as a court of first instance, regardless of the court of which instance issued the enforcement document, may issue a duplicate, if the recoverer or state executor, private executor applied. The ruling on issuance of a duplicate enforcement document shall be adopted within ten days from the date of receipt of the application. A court fee in the amount of 0.03 times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons shall be charged.