This Law shall regulate relations between consumers of goods, works and services and manufacturers and sellers of goods. It will determine the mechanism of protecting them and basic implementation of the state policy on the protection of consumer rights. The Law of Ukraine “On the Use of Cash Registers in the Sphere of Trade, Public Catering and Services” is the basis for this Law.  telecommunication facilities shall mean telecommunication networks, mail service, television, information networks, in particular the Internet. Material defect shall mean a defect, which makes it impossible or unacceptable to use the goods according to its designated purpose. Unfair business practices shall mean any business activity or inactivity, which are contrary to the rules, trade or other fair customs. 24) shelf life shall mean a period determined by the regulatory acts, terms and conditions of an agreement during which quality and safety indicators of products must meet requirements of regulatory acts. 25-1) technically sophisticated household goods shall mean non-food fast-moving consumer goods (devices, vehicles, equipment, etc.) The terms “food product’ and “unfit food product” shall have the meaning given in the Law of Ukraine “On Basic Principles and Requirements for Food Safety and Quality”. The legislation on the protection of consumer rights shall consist of this Law, the Civil Code of Ukraine and other regulatory acts. Specific aspects of protecting consumer rights to financial services shall be determined by relevant laws. If an international treaty ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine provides for rules other than those provided for by the legislation, rules of the international treaty shall apply. The state shall ensure the consumers the protection of their rights. The state shall create conditions for obtaining by a consumer of the necessary knowledge on exercising his/her rights. A seller (manufacturer, contractor) shall be obliged to provide him/her with documents confirming the proper quality of products. The list of groups of technically sophisticated household goods subject to warranty repair (maintenance) or warranty replacement shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A manufacturer (contractor) shall ensure proper operation (application, use) of the products, including the accessories, throughout the warranty period set by the regulatory act. Warranty period counted from the date of transferring goods to a consumer. The warranty obligation shall be terminated on common grounds provided for by the Civil Code of Ukraine. A consumer shall have the right to file relevant demands to a seller (manufacturer, contractor) in respect of products with no warranty period or shelf life. Consumer demands determined by part 1of this Article shall be filed at the consumer’s choice with a seller at the place of goods purchase. A seller, a manufacturer (enterprise satisfying the consumer's demands) must accept the poor-quality goods from a consumer and satisfy his/her demands. Delivery of heavy goods and goods weighing over five kilograms to a manufacturer. If there are no goods in stock, the consumer’s demand for replacing them must be satisfied within two months after a relevant application is filed. When replacing goods with defects for goods of a similar brand (model, article, modification) of the proper quality, the cost shall not be recalculated. Money paid for goods shall be refunded to a consumer on the agreement termination date. A consumer shall be paid the liquidated damages in the amount of one per cent of the cost of goods for each day of delay in satisfying the demand. If consumer requests so, he/she shall be given (with delivery) goods of a similar brand (model, article, modification) irrespective of the model for the period of repair. A seller must provide a consumer with a standard settlement document certifying the fact of sale with a mark on the date of sale. A settlement document must be provided or created in electronic form by the moment of transferring the goods (service.) If a consumer loses a technical certificate or another document replacing it, they shall be restored in accordance with the procedure determined by the legislation. The list of goods not subject to exchange (return) for grounds specified in this Article shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If at the time of exchange no similar goods are in stock, a consumer shall have the right to either purchase any other goods from the range in stock with the relevant recalculation of the cost. If defects are detected in the performed work (provided service), a consumer shall have the right to demand, at his/her choice, free-of-charge elimination of defects. The specified demands may be filed by a consumer within the periods provided for by the regulatory acts and terms and conditions of an agreement. If a contractor cannot perform (delays the performance) of the work (provision of a service) under the agreement, late performance fees shall be paid to a consumer for each day (each hour if the performance duration is determined in hours) of delay. A consumer must notify a contractor of the deviations from the terms and conditions of the agreement. A contractor shall be liable for the damage caused to life, health or property of a consumer, which occurred as a result of using the things, materials, equipment, devices, instruments, applications or other means necessary for performing the works. A consumer shall have the right to waive the agreement on works (services) without any penalties for a contractor. A consumer has the right to terminate an agreement provided that he/she notifies a seller (contractor) thereof within 14 days after the date of receiving a document certifying the fact of conducting a transaction outside the trading or office premises. In case of failure to provide information, a business entity shall be liable under Articles 15 and 23 of this Law. A consumer must keep the received products unchanged. Destruction, damage or spoilage of products, which occurred through no consumer’s fault, shall not deprive a consumer of the right to terminate the agreement. A seller (contractor) or third party has granted a consumer a loan for the amount of funds under an agreement entered into outside the trading or office premises. The fact of providing the information according to the requirements of part 2 of this Article must be confirmed in writing or via electronic notification. No confirmation of information shall be required if the service is provided using telecommunication facilities and paid through a telecommunication service operator. In case of failure to provide such information, a business entity shall be liable under Articles 15 and 23 of this Law. A seller must supply the goods to a consumer within a reasonable period, but no later than within thirty days after obtaining the consumer’s consent to entering into the agreement. A seller may use a standard condition in the agreement on the option of replacing the goods in the absence thereof with other goods. A consumer shall have the right to obtain necessary, publicly available, true and timely information about the products enabling to make a conscious and competent choice. The information must be provided to a consumer before he/she purchases goods or orders works (service). The information about products shall not be deemed an advertisement. A manufacturer (contractor) must fully compensate the consumers for the damages caused by withdrawing the products. Information must be provided to a consumer according to the legislation on languages. A manufacturer (contractor, seller) must communicate the information about the products, which under certain circumstances may be dangerous for the consumer’s life, health, property and environment. Information about the services related to a concert, touring, contest, festival activities must contain data on the use or non-use. The provisions of this part shall also apply to products, which are food products. It shall be allowed to use the terms “discount” or “reduced price’ or any other terms similar by meaning only subject to the following conditions. After the public announcement of the start of sell-off, application of discounts or reduction of the price, the consumers must be made aware of the information. The consumer has the right to file demands with a seller (manufacturer, contractor) provided for by the law. Losses caused to a consumer by unfair advertisement shall be subject to compensation by a guilty person in full. A seller shall not be released from liability if no information on goods was received from the manufacturer (importer) A consumer shall have the right to inspect the quality, safety, completeness, operation, weight and price of the products purchased. A seller (contractor, manufacturer) must not include unfair terms and conditions in agreements with a consumer. If consumer rights are infringed at the service enterprises, a seller (manufacturer, contractor) and employees of such enterprises shall be liable under the law. 3) setting strict obligations of the consumer while the provision of the service is reasoned by the contractor’s own discretion. 4) making sure that a seller (contractor, manufacturer) may not refund the payment made by a consumer if the consumer refuses to enter into or perform the agreement. 7) granting a seller the right not to refund the money paid for products not provided if the agreement is terminated at the initiative of the seller. The list of unfair conditions in agreements with consumers is not exhaustive. Provisions of clause 8, part 3 of this Article shall not apply to the condition of agreements on granting a consumer loan under which the lender provides for the right to unilaterally terminate an agreement. If a provision of the agreement is recognised as unfair, such provision may be amended or invalidated. Unclear or ambiguous provisions of agreements with consumers shall be interpreted for the benefit of the consumer. If damages are caused to a consumer as a result of applying terms and conditions of an agreement restricting consumer rights, they must be fully compensated by a guilty person. A consumer shall have the right to get compensation for losses caused to him/her. Business practice which significantly distorts or may significantly distort the economic behaviour of only an explicitly determined (separate) group of consumers. Information required for making a conscious choice is not provided or is provided in a vague, unclear or ambiguous manner. The specified conditions shall not concern legitimate advertising, including the creation of statements or expressions, which may be taken literally. Business practice shall be deemed aggressive if it actually contains elements of coercion, solicitation or improper influence and significantly impacts the freedom of choice or behaviour of a consumer. The following business practices shall be prohibited as aggressive: creating an impression that a consumer cannot leave the premises of a seller (contractor) without entering into an agreement. The rules of trade, domestic and other types of services (performance of works, provision of services) shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Transactions conducted as a result of unfair business practice shall be invalid. Business entities and their employees shall be liable for unfair business practices under the legislation. Business entities engaged in the trade sphere and other types of services shall be liable for denying a consumer the exercise of his/her rights determined by the law. In case of violation of the legislation on the protection of consumer rights, business entities are liable for up to tenfold of the products cost. Penalties include one to ten per cent of the cost of products sold for the previous calendar month, but at least ten tax-exempt minimum incomes of citizens. Failure to comply with or late compliance with the instruction of the officials of a central executive authority implementing the state policy on state control over the compliance with legislation on the protection of consumer rights. Consumer associations shall be public organisations carrying out their activity under the Law of Ukraine “On Associations of Citizens’. The state shall support the activity of consumer associations. Consumer associations have the right to: 1) study consumer properties of products, demand for them, conduct public opinion polls. The central executive authority implementing the state policy on state control over the compliance with legislation on the protection of consumer rights has the right to issue instructions on terminating the infringement of consumer right binding upon business entities. The authority can inspect the compliance by business entities carrying out the activity on trade and services provision with the requirements of regulatory acts on product safety. Businesses engaged in trade (sections, departments), warehouse services of wholesale and retail enterprises and organisations irrespective of the form of ownership can be banned from selling poor-quality goods. Measures equipment which is malfunctioning, misreading, containing a damaged stamp of certification or no such stamp of certify and is used for providing services to consumers can also be banned. In case of detecting the poor-quality, counterfeit products, products dangerous for life, health, property of consumers and environment, immediately notify a central executive authority. Officers of executive authorities, which protect consumer rights, must strictly comply with the requirements of the legislation. Officers shall be brought to justice for failure to perform or improper performance of the duties. The state guarantees the protection of life, health, honour, dignity and property of an official of a central executive authority implementing the state policy on state control over the compliance with legislation on protection of consumer rights. Officials of the central executive. authority implementing state control. over compliance with consumer rights shall be subject to compulsory state social insurance. Insult of an. official of thecentral executive authority. as well as resistance, threatening, violence and other actions preventing the. performance of tasks vested in him/her shall be punishable under the law.