Law of Ukraine on environmental network .<n>Relations pertaining to the development, preservation and rational, inexhaustible use of the environmental network are regulated under the Constitution of Ukraine .<n>The task of the environmental network legislation is to regulate public relations in the field of development, preservation and inexhaustible use of the environmental network . environmental network object means an integral part of the environmental network that has a trace of a spatial object .<n>The objects of the environmental network include the territories and objects of the nature reserve fund . Land plots with natural vegetative groups which were added to the Green Book of Ukraine; g. territories with some species of fauna and flora which were added to the Red Book of Ukraine .<n> radioactively contaminated lands that can not be used and protected as natural regions of a special status . Public administration in the field of formation, preservation and use of the environmental network is implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine .<n>The powers of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the field of formation, preservation and use of the environmental network include: .<n>The powers of the central executive body that implements state policy in the field of environmental protection, in the field of formation, preservation and use of the environmental network include: . Law No. 5456-VI of 16 October 2012 g) international cooperation in the field of formation, preservation and use of the environmental network of Ukraine . Environmental network design is carried out by means of developing regional charts of environmental network formation of Crimea and regions .<n>The consolidated chart of formation of the environmental network of Ukraine is a component of the General chart for planning the territory of Ukraine .<n>The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine and regional and local programmes on the environmental network development adopted by the corresponding councils . List of key areas of the environmental network includes territories and objects of the nature reserve fund .<n>The list of connecting territories of the environmental network includes areas that provide links between key areas and the integrity of the environmental network .<n>The inclusion of territories and objects in the lists of territories and objects of the environmental network does not harm the rights of those in whose territory they are located . State monitoring of the environmental network involves implementation of a system of observations aimed at assessing the integrity of the environmental network .<n>The state registration of territories and objects of the environmental network Territories and objects of the environmental network are subject to the state recording . Law entered into force on 1 January 2005 .<n>Public hearings may be held in the prescribed manner .<n>International cooperation on the formation, preservation and use of the environmental network . ensure the development and adoption of regulatory acts referred by this Law to its powers; bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law .<n> ensure that ministries and other central executive authorities review and cancel their regulatory acts contrary to this Law .