The Constitution of Ukraine and international treaties has been approved by the European Commission. The law on public associations in the territory of Ukraine has come into effect. Here is the full text of the law. Authorities in Ukraine have issued a statement which describes the rules on public associations establishment and operation. Crimea's Constitutional Authority has published the full text of its rules on public associations. Here is a summary of the law. The Constitutional Authority of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of the law on public associations. Here is a guide to the process. Youth and children's organisations, youth unions and public associations are among the public bodies defined by the Law of England and Wales. 1. A public association that intends to run operations with or without the legal entities status is subject to state registration. The Supreme Management of Ukraine has issued a statement to the public association charter, which includes the names of individuals and legal entities. The authorities in Ukraine have published the names of public associations, including the name of the supreme management body. 1. The charter of a public association The rules on the regulation of public associations in Ukraine have been published by the government. The Constitution of Ukraine has published a list of rules which apply to establish the status of public associations in the country. The Court of Appeal in Crimea has ruled that a foreign non-governmental organisation can be banned by court if it violates the laws of the state. Here are the key points in the case. Authorities in Ukraine have issued a statement which describes the principles of public associations. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the legal status of public associations, their funding and operations. Here is a guide to the law. The Public Association of England and Wales has been given the power to carry out a series of measures, including: The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered the immediate dissolution of public associations. Here is a guide to the process. The Supreme Managing body of Ukraine has ordered the suspension of all public associations in the country. Here is a guide to the process. The new law on public associations in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian parliament. Here is a guide to the law. The Supreme Management body of the all-Ukrainian (international) public organisation has published a summary of its rules on the law. The Law for Public Associations in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. The introduction of a new law on public organisations and unions in England and Wales has been published by the Treasury. Here is the full text of the law. The executive bodies of village, settlement, city councils which exercised delegated powers to register public organisations within six months from the date of entry into force of the Law, have published their details. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has signed a law which aims to ensure the functioning of the Unified State Register of Public Organisations.