The Law of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed list of rules and regulations for the development of the city planning infrastructure in the country. Here is the full list: Authorities in England and Wales have published a list of the key areas of their planning laws. Here are the rules and regulations. 1. Unimpeded access to objects The draft draft of the city planning document draft has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the draft. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed list of the objects of city planning in the country. The government of Ukraine has approved the rules on the management of city planning activity. Following is a summary of the rules and procedures surrounding construction regulations in Ukraine: 1. The powers of village, settlement, city councils on the matters of state architectural and construction control The government of Ukraine has ordered the appointment and dismissal of heads of state architectural and construction control of the Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils. Here are the key points. The territory planning and development of the autonomous Republic of Crimea has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full list of key laws. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a detailed guide to the elaboration of city planning regulations. The government of Crimea has announced a raft of measures aimed at implementing city planning at the local level. Here are the rules and procedures which are being considered. The Ministry of Planning in Ukraine has published a detailed list of the rules on city planning in the country. The government of Ukraine has published the rules and regulations for the development of a locality in Kyiv and Sevastopol. The government of Ukraine has published a draft of its policy on city planning. Here are the key steps to implementing the proposals. 1) establish the terms of the development and the financing sources The government of Ukraine has published a raft of proposals to amend the general scheme of the locality. Here are the key points. The territory zoning plan is to be approved by the local authority responsible for shaping state policy in the area of city planning. The detailed territory plan of a locality in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev, has been published by the government. Here are some of the key facts about the plan. The detailed territory plan of the Ukrainian capital, Kiev, has been published by the local government. Here is a list of key facts. The detailed territory plan within the locality area of Crimea is to be considered and approved by the district state administration. Here is a guide to the issue. Architectural and city planning councils are to be given approval for their draft proposals. Here are the rules and regulations being considered. The approval of draft city planning documents in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. The terms and conditions of public hearings on draft city planning  documents have been published by the government. Here is a guide to the process. The government of Ukraine has published the draft city planning documentation, which will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Here is a guide to the process. The government of Ukraine has announced the creation and maintenance of the city planning cadastre. Here is a guide to how it will work. 1) The electronic system of construction activities The technical administrator of the construction system in Ukraine will be given the power to establish and operate the electronic system. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has announced the creation of a new electronic system, which includes the electronic records of local governments and other providers of outcome data. The Ukrainian government has announced that the electronic system of the construction, architecture and city planning will be maintained by the state. The rules on the law which apply for information and documents obtained by means of electronic system software in hard copy and electronic forms have been published by the government. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree which makes it easier for the state bodies to exercise their powers exclusively in electronic form. Here is the full text of the declaration. The government has published a list of documents which could be used to assess the environmental impact of the construction of objects. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of detailed information on the electronic system of building services. 1. The register of construction activities Following is a list of key facts being submitted to the Ukrainian government: The Ministry of Justice has published a list of electronic documents which could be created using the electronic system. 1. Documents containing information constituting a state secret The E-cabinet is a system of electronic communication between individuals and legal entities, state bodies, local governments, administrative service centres. These are some of the key steps in the process of registering architectural works in Ukraine: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of key facts about the e-cabinet - including: 1. The e-cabinet is the electronic information resource of Ukraine. The law on the electronic identification system in Ukraine has been published by the Ministry of Justice. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed list of rules and regulations in the electronic system of the state land cadastre. The government has published the rules and conditions of the city planning monitoring. Here is a guide to the law. The government of Crimea has published the rules on land development in Kyiv and Sevastopol. Here is a guide to the law. The planning laws in England and Wales have been published by the city council. Here is a guide to the rules and regulations on the development of contiguous territorial communities. The administrative and other construction services provided by the Ukrainian government are to be submitted to the provider of their services. 1. The submission and receipt of documents on construction objects subject to the Law of Ukraine "On State Secrets" will be carried out in hard copy form. The law on the legalisation of foreign representatives in Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Here is a guide to the law. The Ministry of Justice has issued a law which makes it easier to access the results of the administrative and other services associated with construction, architecture and city planning. Here are the key points. 1. Electronic system The identification of a new construction object in Ukraine will be assigned to the public areas and the auxiliary premises when the electronic system is installed. A new identification of the completed construction object created by a technical passport has been published by the Department of Infrastructure. Here are the key points to the issue. A detailed list of key facts from the National Archives of Building and Construction Regulations. 1. The addresses of immovable property objects in Ukraine will be given to buildings, houses and apartments, garage compartments, parking spaces and other residential and non-residential premises. The Isle of Man's housing laws have been published by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Here is a guide to how they are handled. 1. The address A decision on the assignment of address to a new object of construction in Kyiv has been made by the city council. The Ministry of Justice has issued a notification to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine asking them to change address for completed construction objects. A change of address on a completed construction object could be submitted to the taxpayer’s card. The application to change an address of a newly created immovable property object has been submitted to the address assigning body. Here is the list of the steps being taken. The decision not to change an address of unauthorised construction objects in England and Wales could be made by the attorney general. The application on a change of address has been submitted to the local state administration within five working days of receiving the application. The electronic system software which will provide information on the assignment (change) of address of a construction object in Crimea has been published. Following the introduction of the electronic system on building objects for which the right to carry out construction works is acquired, the BBC has learned the details of these rules. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of procedures for applying to carry out construction works in the country. Following the introduction of the electronic system, the BBC has been asked to explain how the address of a new construction object should be adjusted. A decision on the assignment, change or adjustment of an address in Northern Ireland has been published by the Department of State Services. Following the introduction of an electronic system, the BBC's Ukrainian website looks at how the address could be assigned to unauthorised construction objects. The Ministry of Justice has published a list of key documents submitted to the construction of an object which is being constructed in Ukraine. A detailed guide to the rules surrounding the application to adjust the address of a new construction object. The Isle of Man's government has issued a blanket notice to the public to decide whether to accept, change or adjust an address in the territory concerned. Here is the full text of the law. The rules on the building of a homestead, summer and garden house in Aberdeen city centre have been published by the city planning and architecture body. The Ukrainian government has published a detailed guide to the city planning process. 1) A copy of the land plot which could be built on the site of a construction object in the Ukrainian territory exposed to radioactive contamination caused by the Chornobyl Catastrophe. The government has issued a deadline for the issuance of city planning conditions and restrictions in the capital, Kiev. Here is the full list of those required to issue their decisions. The government has published a list of planning conditions and restrictions issued in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev. The technical conditions of building a land plot owned or used by the owners of these objects have been outlined in the Spending Review. The Ukrainian government has issued a new law which makes it easier to operate electric power facilities in the capital, Kiev. 1. Environmental impact assessment The government has issued a snapshot of its strategy for the construction of buildings and structures in England and Wales. Here is the full text of the proposals published by the government. 1. Design evidence The design documentation for the construction of new buildings and structures in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev, has been published by the government. The Ukrainian government has published a detailed list of objects which could be damaged by the failure of the country's government. 1. The class of consequences The Ukrainian government has published a detailed list of the rules and regulations on monuments of cultural heritage. The law on the development of a territory in the Ukrainian city of Sevastopol has been published by the government. Here are the key points to the law. The government of Ukraine has published a list of steps to ensure the safety of construction objects in the capital, Kiev. The government of Ukraine has published the rules and regulations on the arrangement of means of unimpeded access to objects or their reasonable accommodation. Following the introduction of a notice of the commencement of preparatory works, the BBC has been asked to clarify the 10 rules on the right to undertake construction works. The notice of the commencement of preparatory works submitted by the state architecture and construction control body has been published. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has issued a written notice to the customers of objects with low consequences. Here is the full text of the declaration. The Supreme Court has ruled that the right to commence construction works in England and Wales may be terminated by the appropriate state architecture and construction control body. Following the collapse of the Chernobyl nuclear power station, the government has issued a new law which requires the registration of land plots. The government of Ukraine has issued a notice to the public seeking permission to carry out construction works on buildings in the Ukrainian territory. Here is the full text of the application. The Ukrainian government has published a list of key documents which could be submitted to the public to carry out construction works in the territory exposed to radioactive contamination caused by the Chornobyl Catastrophe. The government of Ukraine has announced that it will issue a permit to carry out new construction works using the electronic system software. Following the announcement that the government has not issued a permit to carry out the city planning works, the BBC has been told the terms and conditions of the issue. The government has issued a notice to the customers of new construction objects in Ukraine. Here is the full text of the law. The government of Ukraine has announced that it will enforce the licensing of construction objects in the capital, Kiev. Here is a guide to the law. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has issued a declaration on the readiness of the completed construction objects submitted by the customer within ten working days. The Ukrainian government has announced a compulsory purchase order for the control geodetic survey of completed construction objects. Following the issuance of a permit to carry out construction works in Ukraine, the state architecture and construction control body has published the terms and conditions of the application to issue the certificate. Here is the full text of how it will be handled. 1. Changes in the name of customers and contractors The declaration on the readiness of a completed construction object for commissioning will be submitted in paper form by the state architecture and construction control body. The Ukrainian government has announced that it will refuse to issue a declaration on the readiness of an object for commissioning. The Ukrainian government has approved a deadline for the transfer of completed construction objects to the engineering networks. 1. Customers who submit a notification or declaration on the readiness of the object for commissioning will be required to provide reliable data. The Ministry of Interior of Ukraine has announced a raft of measures to ensure the safety and security of construction objects. The Law of Ukraine - which makes it easier to carry out technical inspections of immovable property objects, has been published by the Ukrainian government. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of the construction agreements between the parties. Here is a guide to the process. The government of Ukraine has announced that it will carry out state architectural and construction control of construction customers. The law which makes it illegal to repeat unscheduled inspections of a construction object or city planning entities has been published by the government. 1. Officials of the state architectural and construction control bodies have the right to perform preparatory or construction works A detailed list of steps to ensure the safety and security of building materials, products and structures in England and Wales are completed. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the state architectural and construction control body. The chief inspectors of construction supervision in the Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils have been appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A judgement has ordered the state architectural and construction control and supervision body to suspend decisions taken by the objects of supervisor. Here are the five steps to ensure the legality of the decision is restored. The law on the suspension of a decision taken by an object of construction supervision in Ukraine has been published by the government. 1) Part three of the Law of Ukraine on Ensuring Ccompetitive conditions for the Production of Electric Energy from Alternative Energysources” Following the auction results of a Ukrainian electric power facility, the BBC looks at the terms of the law. 1. Technical conditions and contracts issued to objects generating electricity from solar radiation energy The Ministry of Culture and Culture has published a draft law which allows the construction of the memorial and museum complex in Kiev to be completed. Here is the full text of this law. The Ukrainian government has published a draft law which makes it easier to carry out technical surveys of buildings and structures built in Kyiv and Sevastopol. Following a series of amendments to the law, the Ukrainian government has published its latest laws on planning and construction control. Here are some of the key steps to implementing these changes: The latest amendments to the Ukrainian Constitution have been published: 1) in the Law of Ukraine: The government of Ukraine has published a new law to examine the state examination of investment programmes in the country. The Isle of Man's planning laws have been published by the government. These are some of the laws which have been published by the government of Ukraine. Following the removal of the words "not commissioned" and "non-commissioned" in the Law of Ukraine, the BBC has learned a raft of changes to the law. The law on planning activity in Ukraine has published a further amendment to the law. The government of Ukraine has published the draft amendments to the laws on design development in the country. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on licensing the economic activities of self-regulateting organisations in the field of architectural activities. The qualifications and conditions of those who have passed a specialist or master’s degree in the field of architecture have been published by the government. A further amendment to the Law of Ukraine on Natural Monopolies has been published: The latest amendments to the law on the protection of cultural heritage in Ukraine have been published: A further amendment to the law on land management projects in Ukraine has been published by the Supreme Court. Here is a full summary of what will be done. The law on land lease in Ukraine has come into force. A notice letter sent by the lessor to a land lease agreement is being sent to the local lessee within one month. Following a series of changes to the laws of Ukraine, the BBC looks at some of the key points in the law. The Ukrainian government has published a raft of changes to its laws on construction regulations. The Ministry of Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine and its territorial bodies have published their latest Decree on State Duty.