The Law of Ukraine on General Safety of Non-Food Products has been published by the Ukrainian government. The introduction of a new law on customs regulation in Ukraine has been published by President Viktor Yanukovych. Here is the full text of the law. The law on market supervision and control of products in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the law. The rules and principles of market supervision and control of products in the customs territory of Ukraine have been published by the government. The Law of Ukraine on General Safety of Non-Food Products (GSP) has been published in the Ukrainian parliament. Here is a guide to the law. The rules and rights of business entities protected by the law of Ukraine have been outlined in the latest sections of this article. Following the introduction of a new law, business entities in Ukraine will be required to carry out inspections of the products placed on the market. Here are the key steps: The Law on Market supervision and control of products in Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Law and the Law of Ukraine “On General Safety of Non-Food Products” has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. The government of Ukraine has ordered the immediate withdrawal from circulation and recall of products which do not meet the required regulations. Here is a full list of steps to protect consumers (users) rights concerning product safety, causes and cases of harm to human health. Authorities in the sphere of market supervision in Ukraine have published a list of steps to implement the law. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published a summary of the rules and regulations of Ukraine's customs authorities concerning control of products. The regulation of market supervision in England and Wales has been published by the government. The Law of Ukraine on Market supervision and control of products has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the law. Officials engaged in market supervision and control of products in Ukraine will be required to comply with the rules of the Law of Ukraine. Officials engaged in market supervision and control of products will be reimbursed for damages caused to their properties in the event of injury or disability due to the exercise of powers. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of key rules for developing draft sectoral market supervision plans and amendments to such plans. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has announced the approval of the sectoral market supervision plans approved by the country's government. Here are the key points. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree on the issue of market supervision measures in Ukraine. Here is the full list of key points. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on the use of market supervision measures. Following the results of the inspections of product characteristics, the government has issued a warning to business entities that they are responsible for the provision of products on the market. The law on non-food products in Ukraine has been published by the country's market supervision authority. The regulation of the market supervision authority in England and Wales has been published by the Commerce and Employment Commission. Here is a guide to the law. The law which regulates inspections of product characteristics in England and Wales has come into force. Here is a guide to the law. The regulation of the market supervision authority's inspections of products has been published by the government. Here are the key points to the law. The inspection of product characteristics at distributors in England and Wales is to be carried out by the market supervision body. 1. Inspectoring the product characteristics at distributors A further inspection of product characteristics at distributors is being carried out by the market supervision authority. The inspections of product characteristics at the market supervision authorities in England and Wales could be carried out within the next five years. Here is a guide to how they can be conducted. 1. Inspectors are required to ensure products that pose serious risk. The rules and conditions of conducting inspections of product characteristics at the venue of fairs, exhibitions and shows of products have been published by the government. The terms and conditions of the inspection of products at fairs, exhibitions or otherwise demonstrations have been published by the Market supervision Authority. The government of Ukraine has issued a blanket order which allows testing (testing) of product samples to be conducted in the area of commercial activity. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has issued a temporary ban on the placement of product samples, following the results of examination (testing) of products. Here is the full text of the decision. The law on the sale and destruction of product samples used for the examination (testing) of products which pose a serious risk has been published. 1. If the market supervision authority finds out that a range of products in the UK do not meet the established requirements, it will be required to take measures to remedy the formal non-compliance. Ukraine's Competition and Market supervision authority has announced that it will take stricter measures to prevent non-compliance of products that pose a danger or risk. The rules on the risk assessment of products which pose a risk to the public interest in Ukraine have been published by the government. The rules on bringing products in compliance with established regulations have been published by the Ukrainian government. The withdrawal of non-food products from circulation or their recall will be carried out in cases provided for in the Law of Ukraine “On General Safety of Non-Food Products”. The rules of withdrawal from circulation and recall of products in Ukraine have been published by the country's market supervision authority. Authorities in the Republic of Ukraine have announced a raft of measures aimed at preventing the withdrawal of non-food products from circulation and their recall. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will approve the methodology of restrictive (corrective) measures against non-food products. The terms and conditions of a decision on the withdrawal or recall of some of the UK's biggest brands have been published by the regulator. Here are 10 key points. The rules and conditions of the decisions on restrictive (corrective) measures taken by the market supervision authority have been published. Here is the outline of a further 10 points. The regulation of the market supervision authority's decisions on restrictive (corrective) measures in the UK is to be carried out within the next five years. Following a decision by the sectoral market supervision authority on taking restrictive (corrective) measures in the retail network, the BBC has been asked to explain the rules on the effectiveness of the decision. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of measures which could be implemented in the country. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules for the control of products imported into the customs territory of the country from another state. The UK's customs authority has issued a notification to the market supervision authorities following the suspension of its products. Here is the full list of rules and regulations. The suspension of customs clearance of products which were suspended as a result of control of the products has been published by the Ukrainian government. The government of Ukraine has issued a notification to the customs authority that suspended the suspension of clearance of non-food products in the country. Here is the full text of the law. The executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of economic and social development in Ukraine has published the rules of the country's market supervision and control of products. The executive authority in charge of the regulation of Ukraine's market supervision and control of products has published a summary of its rules. Consumers will be fined for illegally putting products into circulation, which do not meet the established requirements of a decision on restrictive measures. 1) failure to comply with a decision on restrictive (corrective) measures concerning the elimination of formal non-compliance with the requirements established by the Law, for officials engaged in market supervision. The law on dangerous products in Ukraine has come into force. Here is a guide to the law. 1. Liability The introduction of a report into the market supervision authority's handling of the damages caused to consumers (users) of products in the UK has been published by the High Court. Here are the key points to the process. 1. Payment of penalty The laws of Ukraine have been published by the European Commission. Here are some of the key points in the law. 1. Liabilities of officials engaged in market supervision and control of products The Law on Market supervision and General Product Safety in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian Socialist Council (SSR). Here is the full text of the law. A further amendment to the laws surrounding the recall of dangerous products in Crimea has been announced by President Viktor Yanukovych. The Ministry of State of Ukraine has published a raft of laws which could mean the recall of products from another buyer. Here are the rules: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has approved the approval of market supervision authorities and areas of their responsibility.