The Budget Code of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. The code of spending in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a list of key facts about the state budget. The government of Ukraine has published a list of the key financial details of its budget spending. Here is the full list. The spending units of Ukraine's budgets have been revealed by the government. Here are some of the key points in the code - The law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a list of key points in the law. The annexation of the Crimea budget code has been published by the government of Ukraine. The draft budget of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a list of key points in the draft law. Budget surplus and budget schedule have been defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. Here is a list of key facts in the constitution. The government of Ukraine has published a list of key elements in its budget process, including: The Constitution of Ukraine has published a list of key facts about the state (local) debt management and financial standard of budget security. The Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on the State Budget of the Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the law on budget legislation. The Budget Code of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to how it works. The principles of unity of the budget system of Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. The budgetary system of Ukraine is based on the principles of efficiency and effectiveness: The government of Ukraine has published a list of the spending categories for the country's budgets. Here is the full list. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has published a list of the key spending units in the country's budget process, which includes the classification of expenditures and budget lending. Here are the main facts about the system. 1. Programme  Classification The government of Crimea has published a detailed list of budget classifications. The special budget fund has been established by the Ukrainian government in the wake of a crisis in Ukraine. Here is the full list of key facts about the budget. 1. The budget includes revenues from own receipts of budget institutions. The revenues of budget institutions in the Crimea region have been revealed by the government. Here is a summary of the key points of this code. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules on the use of special budget funds in the country's budgets. Here is a summary of the key points. The Ukrainian government has published a list of the key areas of its budget settlements. Here is the full list. 1. Budget deficit, surplus, remaining budget balance The Treasury Authority of Ukraine has published a code of conduct which makes it easier to access funds provided by the state budget. The Treasury Authority of Ukraine has published the financial rules of the country's accounting chamber. Here is a guide to how it manages state debt management. 1. Loans (loans) from foreign states and international financial organisations are attracted to the state borrowings. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the accounting chamber have published a code of conduct which includes the provision of state borrowings. The head of the Debt Agency of Ukraine (local financial body) has the right to carry out transactions with public debt in the current budget period. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published an article which describes how the local financial body is able to resell and purchase government securities issued by the autonomous Republic of Crimea. Ukraine's strategy of public debt management for the medium term has been published by the Ministry of Finance. Here is a guide to the issue. 1. Loan guarantees 1. Guarantees are provided on terms of fulfilment of debt obligations The introduction of a state (local) guarantee for debt obligations of economic entities in Ukraine has been published by the Treasury and Crimea Commission. Crimea's government has published a list of rules on the amount and type of property security of economic entities in charge of state property. Crimea's governing body has published a series of agreements between the authorities and business entities which guarantee obligations to creditors. Here are the key points. 1. The rights of the creditor and the right to collect overdue debt The tax authorities in Ukraine have imposed limitations on how to repay debt from a business entities. The Debt Agency of Ukraine has the right to appeal against tax authorities in cases of debt collection. Here is a guide to the law. The authorities in Ukraine have issued a series of rules aimed at preventing the write-off of debts to the state. The law on Ukraine's debt guarantees has been suspended for the first time in a decade. Here is the full text of the law. 1. The total amount of local debt and state-guaranteed  Debt in the autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional council or city territorial community may not exceed 200 per cent (41%) of the average annual forecast revenue from other budgets. The government of Ukraine has issued a financial guarantee for the country's budgets. Here is the full text of the Budget making process. The enforcement officer of budget programmes has been appointed by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Here is a guide to the effectiveness of the budget programme. Ukraine's budget making process is based on the principles of evaluation of the effectiveness of its budgets within their powers. The government has published the rules and procedures for using budget funds. The government of Ukraine has announced the creation of passports of budget programmes and reports on their execution. Here is a summary of the key spending units. 1. The budget process The government of Ukraine has published a list of key spending units for the State Budget of the country. The government of Ukraine has published a list of rules and procedures for the implementation of budget programmes. The government of Ukraine has published a code of conduct which makes it easier for the recipient of budget funds to implement their spending. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed outline of the rules surrounding the purchase of energy services in Crimea. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the transfer of budget allocations to the special budget fund. Here is a guide to how the budget is transferred to another key spending unit. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has agreed to make amendments to the law on the state budget, including the amount, purpose and time constraints of budget allocations. The maximum amounts of spending for the average annual consumption of cars, furniture, other equipment and facilities for administrative purposes are established by the law on the State Budget of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has approved the transfer of budget allocations to a key spending unit in the field of health care. The government of Ukraine has published a list of budget programmes for the implementation of state policy in the field of health care. 1. Funds of the State Fund for Regional Development The state fund for regional development in Ukraine will be distributed to the Cabinet of Ministers within two months of the entry into force of a State Budget Law. Here are the key points. 1. State Road Fund The government of Ukraine has issued a statement which describes the amount of revenues received from the state road fund. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of the sources of funding for the State Fund for Radioactive Waste Management. The Treasury of Ukraine has issued a statement to the Cabinet of Ministers on the issue of the State Fund for Water Management Development. Here are the key facts: The head of the accounting chamber of Ukraine has announced that it will exercise control over compliance with budget legislation. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has published a draft law which will examine the impact of internal audit on budget indicators. The draft law on Ukraine's budget is being considered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Here is the full text of the draft laws. 1. The draft law on the execution of the State Budget of Ukraine The government of Ukraine has issued a deadline for the publication of public information on the execution of the State Budget of Crimea. The main spending units of Ukraine's budgets are published on their official websites. The Ukrainian government has published the state budget of Ukraine, which includes revenues of state and local budgets. Following the introduction of Ukraine's new tax code, the government has published a raft of rules which could be included in the code. The government of Ukraine has published a list of payments and sanctions imposed by the Russian Federation in the wake of the Crimea crisis. This is the full list of administrative fees for state registration in England and Wales. The law on lease of state and communal property in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full list of funds spent in the country. Ukraine has published a list of financial contributions received by the state during the procurement process. 1. Accounts for the special fund of the State budget of Ukraine in the part of revenues The pledge to the state revenue of the country's aviation industry has been published. Here is a summary of what it means: The final provisions of the law on environmental tax in Ukraine have been published. The Ministry of Culture of Ukraine has published a list of revenues from the creation of films and film materials created by cinematographers who have received state support. The law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian parliament. Here are the key facts about the law. This is a full list of key steps to implementing the state budget of Ukraine. 1. Funds received in the Special Fund of the State Budget These are some of the key facts in the law of Ukraine: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of key steps to implement the state budget of the country. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of the key areas of its budgets. This list contains the basic principles and procedures of drafting the State Budget and the draft state budget. The draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. Here is a guide to how it manages financial risks and their impact on state budget indicators. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Development has published a list of steps to ensure the Ministry of Finance does not comply with the law. The National Bank of Ukraine has published its Budget Declaration, which aims to determine the indicators of the state budget in the medium term. The High Council of Justice and the National Security and Defense Council (NSC) of Ukraine have been appointed to submit proposals on the priority tasks of the judiciary and its independence. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine is taking measures to eliminate disagreements with the main managers of state budget funds. The Budget Declaration of Ukraine has been published by the government. Here is the full list of key indicators taken into account during the development of the budget declaration. The Ukrainian government has published a detailed list of key points in the draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine. The draft law on the draft State Budget of Ukraine has been published by the Ministry of Finance. Here is a summary of the key spending units. The draft State Budget of Ukraine has been published by the Ministry of Finance. Here is a list of key spending units for the draft budget. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine is preparing a draft law on the State Budget of the country. Here are the key steps to ensure the agreement is reached. The draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine is to be submitted to the Ministry of Finance within three days. The draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a summary of the draft budget outlined by President Viktor Yanukovych. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has submitted a list of detailed information on the state budget in the current and subsequent budget period. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of documents which will be submitted to President Viktor Yanukovych. 1. The law on the State Budget of Ukraine The draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. Here is a summary of the law. The draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Here is a summary of the key points. Treasury services of budget funds have been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has approved the rules on how to raise funds in a single treasury account to cover temporary cash gaps in local budgets. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has published a list of the spending measures approved by the President Viktor Yanukovych. Here are the key points. 1. The Treasury of Ukraine will keep accounting records of all revenues of the state budget, including the amounts of fines paid to the taxpayer. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of the key stages of budget execution by expenditures and crediting. The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. Here is the full text of the code. 1. medium-term commitment in the field of health care The Treasury of Ukraine has issued a blanket notice to the public to determine how the country's budget spending is handled. Here is the full text of the declaration. 1. Making budget commitments without appropriate budget allocations are invalid The government of Ukraine has published a detailed guide to the implementation of certain budget commitments. Here are the key points. 1. Expenses for medical care and spa treatment and recreation for rehabilitation The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has issued a statement to the Cabinet of Ministers on how the state budget is handled. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed explanation of the rules surrounding the government's budget programme. The law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to making amendments to the law. 1. A draft law on making amendments to the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine The draft law on making amendments to the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine is to be considered by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers. Here is a summary of the key points. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine is considering a draft law on making amendments to the Law on the State Budget of the Ukraine. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has published a summary of the key laws in the country's financial affairs. The Treasury of Ukraine has announced a deadline to close all accounts opened in the current and next budget period. Here are the rules and procedures which could mean the end of the budget. The draft law on the implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine has been published in Ukraine. Here is a guide to how it runs. The Treasury of Ukraine has published a detailed list of reports on the execution of the State Budget. The Treasury of Ukraine has published a list of reports on the implementation of the State Budget. Here is the full list. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine submitted details of their annual report on the implementation of the law on its State Budget. The government of Ukraine has published a list of key statistics on the state budget. The Ukrainian accounting chamber has published a summary of its annual report on the State Budget of Ukraine. Ukraine's tax authorities have issued a snapshot of the amount of rent paid to the city of Kyiv and Sevastopol. A list of key financial details for the Ukrainian budgets: The government of Ukraine has published a list of taxes and fees paid to the cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol. Ukrainian authorities have issued a list of payments to the city of Kyiv and Sevastopol, which are credited to local governments. Crimea's government has published a list of administrative fees and concession payments for communal unitary enterprises, individuals – entrepreneurs and public formations, which are credited to local government budgets in the manner determined by the relevant local councils. Ukrainian authorities have issued a raft of fines and penalties against businesses, institutions and organisations in the cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol. The general fund of district budgets has been published by the Treasury Authority. Here is the full list of income tax revenues. A list of financial benefits and penalties received by district councils in England and Wales. The government of Ukraine has published a list of income tax revenues related to the budgets of the Crimea region and regional councils. Crimea's government has issued a series of rules which could mean the withdrawal of taxpayers to the budgets of the autonomous republics and regional councils. The government of Crimea has issued a raft of fines and penalties related to the introduction of license laws in the country. Crimea's budgets have been published by the government of Ukraine. Here is the full list of revenues received from the local authorities. The law on the state budget of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. The Crimean government has published a detailed list of rules which apply to local budgets in Donetsk and Luhansk regions for the period of anti-terrorist operation and Joint Forces Operation. The government of Donetsk and Luhansk in Crimea has been given the powers of local state administrations and executive bodies of city councils. Here is a guide to how they are managed. The government of Ukraine has issued a raft of rules which could see the amount of tax and other revenues spent on local budgets. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of key facts in the Crimea crisis: 1. Expenditures of the local budgets development The draft budget for the development of local budgets has been published by the Treasury Authority. Here is the full list of key financial details. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on local borrowing and local guarantees. Here is a guide to how local budgets can be approved. 1. The amount and conditions of local external borrowing and guarantees are considered by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has published the draft local budget forecasts and draft budgets for the next three years. Here is a guide to the principles of making new local borrowings. 1. Local financial authorities in the Crimea region are obliged to submit their draft budget proposals. The draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been published by the Ministry of Finance in the second reading. Here is a summary of the key points. Ukraine's local financial body has been established by the Ministry of Finance. Here is a guide to the local budget forecasting process. The head of the local financial authority in Crimea has been appointed to establish a local budget body. Here are the key points. A draft decision on the local budget and the materials attached to it. A draft budget submitted to the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea has been published by the local authority's budget commission. Here is a full summary of what it describes as: The draft law in the second reading when approving local budgets by the Verkhovna Rada of the autonomous Republic of Crimea has been published. Here is a summary of what it means for the spending units. The draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers of the autonomous Republic of Crimea. The Treasury of Ukraine holds records of all revenues belonging to local budgets. The Treasury of Ukraine has published the rules on how local budgets will be collected and credited. The government of Crimea has announced that it will amend the decision on local budgets following the end of the budget period. Here is a guide to the issue. The law on the State Budget of Ukraine has come into force. Here is a guide to the rules of the local budget. The Constitution of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of the State Budget of Crimea. Here is a guide to how it works. Crimea's government has published a code of conduct which regulates inter-budgetary relations between the authorities and the government. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the transfer of financial resources from the state budget to local governments. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed list of the types of expenditures made in the country's budgets. Here is the full list. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of educational services approved by the country's government. A list of programmes in the field of health care approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Pension Fund of Ukraine has published a list of financial measures announced by President Viktor Yanukovych. The government of Ukraine has issued a list of key laws in the country's political history. A list of key areas of social assistance in Ukraine: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of state programmes for the development of physical culture and sports in the country. This is a full list of educational programmes made from the budgets of rural, settlement, urban territorial communities. A list of key areas of health care in England and Wales: The Ukrainian government has published a list of measures for the implementation of state policy on children, youth, women and families in the autonomous Republic of Crimea and regional budgets. a) educational institutions: A list of key areas of health care in England and Wales: Crimea's President Vladimir Putin has signed a decree which describes the state programmes and measures for implementation of state policy. Here is the full list of key policies and procedures. 1) Social protection and social security Crimea's government has published a list of programmes that can be carried out from all local budgets. Here is the full list. The government has published a list of the key areas of its local programmes. The BBC's annual assessment of the benefits provided to war veterans, including those affected by the Chernobyl disaster, has been published in Crimea. Here is the full list of programmes approved by parliament. The transfer of funds between local councils to local budgets has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a summary of the transfers. The government of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of its budget transfers. Here is a summary of the rules and procedures for giving subsidies from the state budget to local budgets in the country. The tax capacity index of local government budgets is a coefficient determining the level of taxability of the local self-government budget in Ukraine. The Law on the State Budget of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of intergovernmental transfers in the country's budgets. The government of Ukraine has announced a raft of subventions aimed at providing financial support for the construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of streets and municipal property in settlements in Kyiv and Sevastopol. The government of Ukraine has approved the amount of educational subventions aimed at remunerating teachers in the country's budgets. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has approved a number of educational subventions aimed at providing state support to children with special needs. The government of Ukraine has published a list of subventions including: 1) acquisition of special means of correction for psychophysical development enabling mastering the curriculum. The law on the state budget of Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. Here is a summary of the law's scope of medical subvention. The Law on the State Budget of Ukraine has published the amount of additional subsidies transferred from the state budget for regional budgets. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree on the regional budgets of Ukraine. Here are the key points in the declaration. 1. Subventions for investment projects The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules and procedures for the transfer of intergovernmental subsidies to implement investment projects. The Ukrainian government has published its budget declaration, which includes a detailed list of measures to monitor compliance with budget legislation. 1. The powers of the accounting chamber Ukraine's accounting chamber has been appointed to submit conclusions on the state budget of Ukraine. Here is a guide to the powers of the Auditors Chamber. The Treasury of Ukraine has been given the powers to control compliance with budget legislation. Here is a guide to how it manages budgets. This is the full text of the Crimea budget code, which includes the powers of central executive bodies implementing the state policy in the field of state financial control. Ukraine's budget authorities have published a series of rules relating to the law on the State Budget of Ukraine. Here are some of the key facts: Ukraine's government has published a list of sanctions made against the spending units of the country in the wake of President Viktor Yanukovych signing the draft budget code. Ukraine's budget authorities have issued a series of rules which could result in the failure to implement the law on the State Budget of Ukraine. Warning about improper implementation of budget legislation by a participant in the budget process The government of Ukraine has issued a warning on how to apply measures of influence in the country's budget process. The government of Ukraine has published a list of measures to control compliance with budget legislation. The Court of Appeal in Kiev has ordered the suspension of the decision on the local budget and local government budgets in Crimea. The Treasury of Ukraine is responsible for a string of irregularities in the country's budgets. Here is the full text of the latest chapter of this code. The lifting of the Covid-19 restrictions in the Republic of Ukraine will be established on 1 January 2021. The Ukrainian government has published a detailed list of rules which apply to the country's budgets. 1. Recognise as invalid the Budget Code of Ukraine The Treasury has published a further chapter in the law on Ukraine's debt guarantees. The draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. Here is a guide to the law. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has the right to set social cards and spending in absolute amounts to certain categories of citizens. The Treasury of Ukraine has announced a raft of measures to compensate the taxpayer for damage caused by illegal decisions in the autonomous Republic of Crimea. The Court of Human Rights in Ukraine has issued a statement which describes the procedures of the sale of property confiscated or turned into state revenue by the court. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has issued a written-off of state budget funds (local budgets) for the execution of court decisions. Officials, public officials of bodies of the Treasury of Ukraine and the National Atomic Energy Generating Company "Energoatom" are to be prosecuted for damages. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the draft laws of the country's budgets. Here is a look at the key steps to implementing these regulations. The draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. Here is a summary of the key steps to implement the law. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a new law which will determine the use of taxes and fees incurred by taxpayers in the autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol. 1) Repayments of errorneously or overpaid amounts from certain types of business activities The government of Ukraine has published a further amendment to the latest laws in the country's new tax code. The Treasury of Ukraine has published the rules and conditions for giving a stabilisation subsidy to local budgets. The Ministry of Finance has published the rules on the transfer of funds from regional budgets for training services in cities of regional significance. The Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Budget has published a draft code of rules which can be applied in the case of inter-budgetary relations. The government of Ukraine has published a list of rules on the implementation of the state budget and local budgets in Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Ukraine's military-civil administrations have agreed a list of objects and measures to be carried out at the expense of the balances of local budgets in Donetsk and Luhansk regions. The Treasury of Ukraine has published a list of sanctions made against the authorities in Donetsk and Luhansk regions. The government of Ukraine has published a number of laws on the country's membership of the armed forces, including the control over the use of state budgets. The draft State Budget of Ukraine for 2019. The drafting of the State Budget of Ukraine for 2016. The Treasury Authority of Ukraine has published a list of transactions with the state, state-guaranteed debt and Local Debt. The law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been published on Wednesday. The draft decision on the local budget for 2021 will be made by 31 December 2020. 1) until 1 January 2021, functions on drafting the budget of the formed territorial community, which territory is approved by the government in 2020 in accordance with the Law of Ukraine "On Local Self-Government in Ukraine". The Treasury of Ukraine has issued a snapshot of its budgets, which includes taxes, fees and other incomes. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has the right to establish the amount of personal data being collected in the state budget. The Treasury has published the latest laws on taxes on fuel produced in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. The Ministry of Finance has published the latest proposals to establish a tax on fuel produced in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has published a draft of its budget policy for 2018-2020. The government of Ukraine has published the draft budget code which makes it easier to access the funds received by institutions and organizations under the auspices of the National Academy of Sciences. A draft decision on the local budget forecast for 2021 and 2022 has been submitted to the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych has visited the city of Kyiv for the first time.