The Law of Ukraine on vine-growing and wine-making has been published by the European Court of Human Rights. A list of key facts about the wine-growing zone in the Ukrainian territory of Crimea. In our series of letters from leading wine producers, the BBC looks at some of the key facts about the wine industry. In our series of letters from African journalists, the BBC looks at some of the key points in the process of wine-making. The Ukrainian wine industry has announced a raft of rules and regulations related to wine production. The law on grape alcohol distillate has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. President Viktor Yanukovych has announced that the country's vineyard census will be carried out next week. Here is a guide to the process. 1. Variety testing President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree on the introduction of the country's rules on wine-making. The Ukrainian government has announced a raft of measures aimed at preventing the production of alcoholic beverages in the country. The Ukrainian government has published a list of rules and procedures to approve new brands of wine products produced in the country. The Ukrainian government has approved a ban on the production and sale of wines and other brands. The quality certificate for table wines has been issued by the British Chamber of Commerce. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree which aims to establish the rules for the production of wines from grapes of certain varieties. Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych has announced the terms of the wares of champagne wines. The law on alcoholic beverages in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. The law on wine-making in Ukraine has come into force. Here is the full text of the law. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree to impose financial sanctions against businesses in the country's agro-industrial complex. Ukraine's new law on the sale of counterfeit wines has come into force on 1 January 2006.