The European Union has published the draft law on cross-border co-operation in Ukraine. The principles of cross-border co-operation agreements in Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to how it works and what it aims to achieve. The Constitution of Ukraine has published the principles of the state policy on cross-border co-operation. Here are the key points in the law. The government of Ukraine has announced that it will establish a cross-border co-operation agreement with the European Union. Here is the full text of the latest steps in the process. President Viktor Yanukovych has announced a raft of changes to the law on cross-border co-operation in Ukraine. Here is the outline of the key steps to implementing these measures. 1. A special procedure for crossing the state border A cross-border co-operation agreement between the European Union and the EU has been published in Brussels. The European Commission has published the draft agreements on forming the Euroregion co-operation association on the territory of Ukraine. The draft agreements on forming the Euroregion co-operation association have been published by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The European Commission has published the draft rules for the development of a cross-border co-operation between Ukraine and the European Union. Here is the full text of the laws. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published the rules and principles of the international technical assistance programmes for cross-border co-operation. The European Commission has published a draft law which aims to ensure the participation of entities of cross-border co-operation of Ukraine in the European Union. The new law on Ukraine's cross-border co-operation programmes has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. Here is the full text of the law. The government of Ukraine has announced a budget for the next five years. Here is the full text of the draft budget. 1. The Cabinet of Ministers will provide for funds for development of cross-border co-operation.