The criminal executive legislation of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to how it works. The Supreme Court has ordered the execution and serving of sentences in the Republic of Ukraine. Here is a guide to the process of reformation and re-socialisation. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published the rules on a new register for those convicted of crimes against sexual freedom and sexual integrity of minors. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree to establish the register of criminals convicted of child sex offences in Ukraine. Here are the key points. The Code of Human Rights of Ukraine has published its rules on the rights of convicts. Here is a guide to the process. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered prisoners to submit their complaints to the courts. The Code of Conduct in Ukraine has been published by the Supreme Court. Here is a guide to the process. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) has published the Charter 3 of Penal Offences, which includes the terms of probation. Here is a guide to the issue. The Ministry of Defense of Ukraine has published a code of conduct which includes the powers of state executive service bodies, military units and disciplinary battalion. The Ministry of Justice has published a list of measures aimed at convict reformation and preventing them from re-offending. The Ministry of Defence has published the terms and conditions of a disciplinary battalion of convicted compulsory-duty service personnel. 1. Maximum-security correctional facilities The Ministry of Justice has issued a summary of its findings on the execution of criminal sentences in Ukraine. Here is the full list of key facts. The state penal policy in Ukraine is to be implemented by the authorities and officials of the central executive authority. 1. Prosecutor General, including the chairperson of the mass media, will have the right to visit penitentiary institutions without time restrictions. The Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights has published a detailed guide to the rights of convicts in execution of criminal sentences. The Code of Conduct in Ukraine has been published on Wednesday. Here is a guide to the execution of criminal sentences. The Supreme Court has ordered the execution of the sentences of deprivation of military, special rank, grade or qualification class. Here is a guide to the process. The Ministry of Justice has issued a summary of its findings on the execution of sentences of deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in some activities. The National Police Authority has published the rules of the probation authority in England and Wales. The Crown Prosecution Service has issued a summary of the rules surrounding the sentencing of convicted convicts. The Code of Conduct has been published by the Supreme Court in Strasbourg. Here is the full text of the code. The Court of Human Rights in Ukraine has issued a summary of its rules on community services. The Ministry of Justice has issued a written notice of prosecution to convicts sentenced to community service. Here is the full text of the latest chapter in the law. Evasion from a sentence of community service in Ukraine will be prosecuted under the rules of the criminal procedure legislation. Here is the full list of procedures and conditions for executing those sentenced to correctional labour. The rules and conditions for serving the sentences of correctional labour in England and Wales have been published. Here are the key points. The Supreme Court in Kiev has ordered the immediate release of convicts sentenced to correctional labour. Here is a guide to the process. The Code of Conduct has been published by the Court of Appeal. Here is a summary of the rules and conditions imposed to convicts in cases where they serve their sentences. The Code of Conduct in England and Wales has come into force. Here is a guide to the process of deductions from earnings of convicts sentenced to correctional labour. The Labour laws in England and Wales have been published by the Crown Prosecution Service. Here is a guide to the process. The Court of Appeal in Kiev has ordered the evasion of prisoners to service restrictions. Here is a guide to the process. The Ministry of Justice has issued a statement to the military-medical commission, which has ruled that service restrictions for service persons serving in peacetime could be executed. The Ministry of Justice has issued a summary of the laws surrounding the sentences of arrest. Here is the guide to the process. The Ukrainian Parliament has published the rules on the conduct of convicts sentenced to arrest. The Ministry of Defense of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of the military detention system. Here is a guide to the process. The Ministry of Defence has published the draft Charter 13 of the rules on military service in Ukraine. The government of Ukraine has published a raft of changes to the country’s penal policy. A review of the rules on enforcing restrictions of freedom in England and Wales. The rules for serving a prison sentence in Ukraine have been published by the Justice Department. 1. Prisoners sentenced to restriction of freedom may not: The head of Ukraine's Correctional Centre has ordered the immediate release of convicts sentenced to restriction of freedom. Here is a guide to the issue. The Supreme Court has approved the terms of the employment of convicts sentenced to restriction of freedom. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has announced a raft of powers which could be applied to convicts sentenced to restriction of the freedom. The Supreme Court has ordered the immediate release of convicts sentenced to restriction of freedom from prison. Here is a guide to the process. The government has published a raft of changes to the law on the prison sentences of convicts. Here is the full list. The rules for applying incentives and penalties to people sentenced to restriction of freedom in Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. The introduction of the prohibition on leaving the prison dormitory in Northern Ireland has been published. Here is a guide to the issue. The Ministry of Defense of Ukraine has published a detailed guide to the terms and conditions of the disciplinary battalion. The government has published a raft of changes to the rules of the disciplinary battalion in England and Wales. Here are the key facts. The Ministry of Defence has issued a raft of changes to the rules surrounding the convicted military service person and their family. The Ministry of Defense of Ukraine has published the rules on the conduct of the disciplinary battalion. Here is a guide to the process. The Ministry of Defence has announced the creation of amateur councils in England and Wales. Here is a guide to the process. The Ministry of Defense of Ukraine has published a code of conduct which includes the rights of convicted service persons arrested under the disciplinary procedure. The Constitutional Authority of Ukraine has published its latest chapter on the execution of convicts sentenced to imprisonment. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published the rules for relocating convicts in custody. Here is a guide to the process. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree which will allow the admission of convicts sentenced to imprisonment to prison facilities and juvenile correctional facilities. The rules for separation of convicts sentenced to imprisonment in prison facilities and juvenile correctional facilities have been published by the Supreme Court. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published a draft of its rules on transferring convicts sentenced to life imprisonment to maximum-security facilities. The quarantine, diagnosis and allocation units in the prisons of convicts sentenced to imprisonment have been announced by the government. Here is a guide to how they will be detained. The social and psychological service departments in England and Wales have published a raft of changes to the laws surrounding the detention of convicts sentenced to imprisonment in the re-socialisation unit. The Ministry of Social and psychological Services has published the rules and conditions of detention for convicts sentenced to imprisonment. The transfer of convicts sentenced to imprisonment in the autonomous Republic of Crimea will be carried out by the monitoring committee. Changes to the regime in the facilities and its basic requirements The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published the rules on the use of the facilities at the International Penitenciary Institution in Kiev. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published a draft law which aims to ensure the safety of convicts at the International Crime Agency (ICRC) facility. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has announced the introduction of the regime of special conditions in prisons without delay. Here is a guide to the process. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published the rules and conditions for serving convicts sentenced to imprisonment. 1. Convicts will be given a prison sentence. The Isle of Man Fire and Rescue Service has announced a ban on the immediate closure of the facility. Here is the full list of those convicted. 1. Convicts shall be prohibited from leaving the facilities at will The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published the latest chapter in the law which makes it easier for those sentenced to imprisonment. The Supreme Court has ordered the immediate introduction of a new law on visits to convicts sentenced to imprisonment with relatives, lawyers and other persons. The terms of the state penal policy in England and Wales have been published. 1. The number and types of visits will be determined. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published a list of websites permitted for access to the internet. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published a detailed guide to the rules on short trips of convicts sentenced to arrest and imprisonment. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published the rules on sending and handing over parcels and postal wrappers to convicts sentenced to imprisonment. President Viktor Yanukovych has issued a decree on the terms and conditions of prison sentences in Ukraine. Here are the rules. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Central Executive Authority have agreed to establish the rules and conditions of the state health care policy. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has announced a raft of conditions for detention and protection of convicts sentenced to imprisonment. The Crown Prosecution Service has published a summary of the rules and conditions imposed on convicts sentenced to imprisonment. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published the rules on the retirement age of convicts sentenced to imprisonment. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of the employment of convicts sentenced to imprisonment. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of the pension payments given to convicts sentenced to imprisonment. Here is a guide to the process. The Ministry of Justice has published the rules on social and educational work with convicts sentenced to imprisonment. Authorities in Ukraine have issued a raft of changes to their rules on vocational and educational reforms. Here is the outline of the measures announced by the government. The Ministry of Justice has published the terms of the introduction of amateur organisations of convicts sentenced to imprisonment. The Supreme Court has ordered the introduction of the state penal policy in England and Wales. Here is a guide to the issue. The Code of Human Rights has come into force in the wake of the death of a clergy member in prison. Here are the key facts about the confession. The Ministry of Justice has published the rules for applying incentives to imprisoned persons. The Isle of Man’s Prison Service has published the rules of conduct of the penitentiary institution. Here is a guide to the issue. The Supreme Court has ordered the abolition of the conditions of detention in England and Wales. The maximum penalty sentence imposed on a person who has been found guilty of gross misconduct at the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) is to be enforced in January. Here are 10 rules for enforcing penalties. In the latest chapter in the law, judges will be banned from entering a disciplinary cell. The penalty penalties imposed on a convict have been issued by the Crown Prosecution Service. Here is the full text of the law. The rules on the appropriateness of imposing a penalty on prisoners serving sentence of imprisonment have been revealed. The rules and regulations surrounding the violation of the regime of serving a sentence in the penitentiary institution have been published by the Department of Social and psychological Service. 1. The Ministry of Justice's disciplinary committee has published the terms and conditions of the placement of convicts sentenced to imprisonment. The Supreme Court has ordered the release of convicts from prison in England and Wales. Here is a guide to the procedures of serving sentences in different types of facilities. The maximum security correctional units in England and Wales have been given the right to spend every month, without limitation. Here is a guide to the conditions of detention for men convicted of premeditated particularly grave crimes. The Supreme Court in Kiev has ordered the immediate release of a number of men convicted of crimes such as murder, rape and hostage-taking. 1. In maximum-security correctional facilities, convicts will have the right to spend, without limitation, the money earned in their cell-type premises. The Ministry of Human Rights has published a summary of the terms and conditions of serving sentences by convicted pregnant women, nursing mothers and women who have children under the age of three. Authorities in England and Wales have issued a raft of changes to the state penal policy. Here are the key points. The rules of conduct for serving sentences in juvenile correctional facilities have been published by the Crown Prosecution Service. The Supreme Court has ruled that convicted minors in England and Wales may be given the right to attend cultural, entertainment and sporting events outside the juvenile correctional facility. The introduction of the state penal policy in England and Wales has been published by the government. Here is a guide to the process. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree on the establishment and operation of juvenile correctional facilities in Ukraine. Here is the full text of the decision. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) has published a guide to the rights and obligations of convicts sentenced to life imprisonment. The Supreme Court has published a raft of changes to the laws surrounding the release of convicted men and women sentenced to life imprisonment. The Supreme Court has ordered the immediate release of convicts sentenced to arrest, restriction of freedom or imprisonment. The rules for early release from serving a sentence in Ukraine have been published by the Supreme Court. The Court of Appeal has ordered the release of prisoners convicted of grave or particularly grave crimes. Here is a guide to the process. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered the release of prisoners sentenced to restrictions or imprisonment for pregnancy and childbirth. Here is a guide to the issue. The Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine has published a raft of changes to the law on social patronage activities for people released from prison. The Supreme Court in Kiev has ordered the immediate execution of those released from serving their sentences with probation. The Ministry of Justice has published the rules and regulations for the release of people released from serving their sentence with probation. The Court of Appeal in Kiev has issued a written warning to prisoners who fail to fulfil the obligations imposed on them by the court. The Ukrainian Supreme Court has passed a code of conduct which would allow prisoners to be released from jail. Here is the full text of the code. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a code of conduct which aims to bring in the laws of the country in line with the current law.