The Republic of Ukraine has passed a law which aims to support the development of the Ukrainian economy through innovation. The Constitution of Ukraine has published the principles of the state innovation policy, which aims to promote the development of innovation infrastructure. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree to establish the structure of innovation activities in Ukraine. Here is the full text of the Constitution. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree which will give the powers to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the field of innovation activities. Here is the full text of the order. The draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine has been published by President Viktor Yanukovych. Here is the full text of the draft law. The powers of the Central Executive Authority of Ukraine in the field of innovation have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full list of those appointed by President Viktor Yanukovych. 1. Executive local government authorities within their competence shall: The law on innovation activities in Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of rules on the qualification and state registration of innovation projects. The European Commission has published a list of laws related to the qualification and state registration of innovation projects. The executive authority in Ukraine has published a list of key rules on how to recognise innovative products. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules of how to provide financial support for innovation projects. 1. Funds of a State innovation financial and credit institution received from the budget of the Crimea or област and raion budgets The Law of Ukraine “On State Secret” has been published by the Supreme Court. Here is a guide to the law. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on how to provide financial support for local innovation programmes. The Law of Ukraine “On State Secret” has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a summary of the law. The Ukrainian government has published a law which makes it easier to amend the laws of Ukraine.