The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) has passed a law on the legal protection of geographical indications in Ukraine. Following the publication of a new law on intellectual property in Ukraine, the BBC looks at the key points of the law. The government of Ukraine has announced the establishment of a specially authorised body (NIPO) and Appeals Commission (Personnel Review Commission) in the field of legal protection of geographical indications. Here is the full list of the powers of NIPO. The National Iintellectual Property Authority (NIPO) in the field of protection of rights to geographical indications has been given approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Here is the full list of powers. The National intellectual Property Organisation (NIPO) has the power to carry out a series of steps to protecting rights to geographical indications in Ukraine. Here is the full text of the charter. 1. NIPO is responsible for the inspection of applications and state registration of goods origin. The head of the World Iintellectual Property Organisation (NIPO) is appointed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. Here are five things you need to know about NIPO. The government has appointed a supervisory board for the protection of intellectual property rights. Members of the National Institute for Fiscal Studies (NIPO) have been given the powers of a new representative. The National Iintellectual Property Office (NIPO) has published its annual financial statements. Here is a guide to the rules and principles of its activities. The National Independent Office of Proceedings (NIPO) has published the rules of procedures for its activities. Here is a guide to the powers of NIPO. The National Institute of intellectual property (NIPO) has published a new law which includes the powers of the Appeals Commission and the regulation of international treaties. The National Identity Protection Office (NIPO) has published a law which allows foreigners and other people to exercise their rights in relations with NIPO. This is the full text of the Law on Human Rights in Ukraine. Here is a guide to the law. The European Union has published a law which makes it easier for foreign nations to register their products. Here is the full text of the law. The National Producers' Office (NIPO) has published a list of key facts about the product’s origin. The National Identity Protection Office (NIPO) has published a detailed guide to the process of submitted applications for intellectual property. Here are the key steps to apply. 1. The application will be drafted in Ukrainian. The National Institute of Producers and Publishers (NIPO) has published its rules on the process of selecting applications for a geographical indication. Here is the full text of the application process. The National Indication of Goods Origin (NIPO) has issued a deadline for the filing of additional materials submitted against the product. Here is the rules and procedures for taking part in the process. 1. Anyone who submits an application to the NIPO without permission. The National Identity Protection Office (NIPO) has issued a deadline for the submission of objections. Here is the full text of the application process. The National Identity Protection Office (NIPO) has issued a notice to the National Identification Number (NIAP) following the publication of the application filing application. Following the introduction of a declared geographical indication in the civil circulation, the BBC looks at the details of the application process. The National Investigation Office (NIPO) has issued a preliminary conclusion to the objector of the objection application. Here are the rules and procedures for taking into account objections. 1. The right to appeal against a decision of the National Independent Office (NIPO) to the Appeals Chamber is lost. The Northern Ireland Office for Public Accountability (NIPO) has published a list of rules which apply to appeal against the decision of the Appeals Chamber. The National Identity Protection Office (NIPO) has issued a written notice which would allow the withdrawal of an application to apply for the National Identification Number (NINO). The National Identity Protection Office (NIPO) has issued a written notice to the public about the rights to register the geographical indication of the goods origin in the register. The National Producers' Office (NIPO) has published its latest rules on changes made in the National Inspectorate of Petroleum Resources (NIAP). The Law on Registration of Geographical Indications in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. The legal protection of geographical indications has been published by the Department of Food and Drug Administration. Here is a summary of the rights given to the law. The Law on Registration of Homonymous Geographical Indications is to be published in January 2018. The law on the use of homonymous geographical indications in Ukraine has been published by the Supreme Court. The law on legal protection of geographical indications has been published by the National Identity Protection Office (NIPO). Here is a guide to how it can be handled. The Law on Registration of Geographical Indications in England and Wales has been published by the Supreme Court. The Law on the legal protection of intellectual property (NIPO) in Ukraine has come into force.