The Law of Ukraine has been published by the European Court of Human Rights. The BBC's weekly The Boss series profiles different types of architectural work in England and Wales: The Ukrainian government has published the rules on technical supervision and self-regulatory organisations in the field of architectural activity. Here is the full text of the law. Architectural activity within the exclusion zone of the territory exposed to radioactive contamination due to the Chornobyl disaster has been regulated by the government of Ukraine. Here is a guide to how it works. Architectural and town planning competitions are being held in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev. Here are the terms and conditions of the competition. Architectural work design is approved by the architectural and town planning council. The government of Ukraine has issued a detailed statement to the public about construction regulations in the Crimea region. The Ukrainian government has published a new law which allows contractors to carry out design and technical supervision. This is the full text of the law which makes it easier to choose the chief architects of town planning and architectural authorities in the autonomous Republic of Crimea. The rules and conditions of self-regulatory organisations in the field of architectural activities have been published by the Ukrainian government. Citizens who have obtained higher education at the educational and qualification levels of bachelor, specialist, master in the field of architecture are being given the powers to conduct professional certification. A decision on whether to refuse a qualification certificate following the results of an examination is made known to the public. The government of Ukraine has issued an appeal against a decision to refuse admission to professional certification in the field of construction. The government of Ukraine has issued a new law which allows people to have qualification certificates in the field of construction, architecture, town-planning. Here is the full text of the law. Foreigners and stateless people who have not received the relevant qualification certificate have the right to carry out architectural work on the territory of other states in Ukraine. Here is the full text of the law. The rights of architectural designers and contractors in England and Wales have been revealed by the government. Here is the full text of the laws being considered. The design of architectural works in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. The government of Ukraine has issued a statement to the public on the protection of historical and cultural monuments during construction work. This is the full text of the agreement on the design of architectural, town planning, garden artwork. The Law of Ukraine on Copyright and Related Rights has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the Law. 1. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will submit proposals to the Verhovna Rada of the country to review and repeal their regulatory acts.