The Law of Ukraine has been published by the European Commission. Political advertising, comparative and hidden adverts are among the types used to promote political parties (party organisations) in the UK. The law on advertising in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. The broadcasting and TV sales of programmes and events created and held with sponsors’ participation have been published by the Broadcasting Authority. Here is a guide to the law. The law on advertising in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here are the key points to the law. The rules on advertising in Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. 1. Advertising disseminate services without information about the use of phonogram by the performers of music compositions The government of Ukraine has published the rules on advertising in the country's territory. Here is a guide to the issue. The law on advertising in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the law. The rules of advertising in England and Wales have been published by the Commerce and Employment Commission. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has signed a decree on advertising in the Republic of Crimea. Here is the rules and conditions for advertisement. The broadcasting of TV programmes in the territory of Ukraine could be interrupted by advertising. Here is a guide to the issue. The rules on advertising in foreign TV and radio companies have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. The law on advertising on the streets, buildings and structures in the autonomous Republic of Crimea has been published by the government. Here is the full text of the law. The Law of Ukraine on Protection of Cultural Heritage has published its rules on the placement of external advertising. The Isle of Man’s advertising laws have been published by the Ministry of Transport. Here is a guide to the issue. The advertising of medicines, medical equipment, methods of prevention, diagnoses, treatment and rehabilitation in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Advertising of medicines, medical equipment, methods of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation will be banned in England and Wales. Here is a guide to the rules. The advertising of medicines, medical equipment, methods of prevention, diagnoses, treatment and rehabilitation will be banned from broadcasting on television and radio programmes. Here is a guide to the rules. The advertising of medicines, medical equipment, methods of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation placed in specialised issues assigned for medical institutions and doctors in England and Wales is to be banned. The rules on advertising of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products in England and Wales have been published by the government. Here is a guide to the law. 1. Advertising of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products The Isle of Man's government has announced a ban on the advertising of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. Here is the full text of the law. Advertising of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages in Ukraine will be given a text warning. Advertising of gambling is to be banned from advertising in England and Wales. Here is a guide to the law. The rules on advertising of gambling in Ukraine have been published by the Attorney General of Ukraine. The law on advertising weapons, armaments and military equipment in Ukraine has been published by the Ministry of Defence. The law on advertising of financial services in Ukraine has published a list of key features. The advertising text for employment mediation services in Ukraine has been published by the National Commission on Social Insurance of Unemployment. The Treasury Authority has published a list of details of the rules on advertising of securities and stock market. The National Commission on Securities and Stock Market has published a list of the rules on advertising in the field of joint investment institutions. The National Commission on Securities and Stock Market has published its rules on advertising in the stock market. Here is a guide to the law. 1. Advertising The advertising of securities and stock market is to be suspended within five working days from the date of its promulgation. The law on advertising in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. The rules of the law on advertising in England and Wales have been published by the Treasury. Here is a summary of what it means. 1. Responsibility for the breach of legislation on advertising The Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine has published a list of breaches of the law on advertising in the country. The law on advertising in Ukraine has come into force on 1 January 2005. Here is the full text of the law. 1. The Ministry of State Duty of Ukraine has been ordered to amend the laws arising from the law on advertising.