The Constitution of Ukraine has been published by the National Assembly. The Constitution of Ukraine has been published by the European Court of Human Rights. Here is a guide to the constitutional rights of the individual and citizen. The Constitution of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian parliament. Here is the full text of the constitution. The Constitution and the laws of Ukraine have been unveiled by the President Viktor Yanukovych. The Constitution of Ukraine has been published by President Viktor Yanukovych. Here is the full text of the constitution. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree on the rights of women and men in Ukraine. Here is the full text of the constitution. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered the immediate release of all people arrested or detained in the event of an urgent need to prevent or stop a crime. The Supreme Court has approved the rights of all citizens of Ukraine, including the right to freedom of thought and speech. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree that citizens of Ukraine have the right to exercise their rights and freedoms. The Constitution of Ukraine has published the terms of the creation and activity of political parties and public associations. The Supreme Court has ordered the expropriation of all objects of state and communal property in England and Wales. The Constitution of the Republic of Scotland has been published by the Ministry of Labour. All citizens in England and Wales have the right to financial security, health protection, medical care and medical insurance. Here is the full text of the Constitution. The Supreme Court has passed a law requiring all citizens to have the right to equal access to information about the environment and the quality of foodstuffs and consumer goods. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has approved the rights of all citizens in the country. Here is the full text of the constitution. The States of England and Wales has published a raft of laws which would guarantee the rights and duties of all citizens. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree on the rights and freedoms of all people in Ukraine. Here is the full text of the constitution. The Constitution of Ukraine has published the terms of the country's elections. Here is a guide to the constitution. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has signed a decree on early termination of the powers of Ukrainian MPs. The oath of a parliamentary member of the Ukrainian Parliament is to be read by the eldest MP of Ukraine. The Constitution of Ukraine has been published by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in the wake of the election results. The Constitution of Ukraine has published the terms of the powers of a coalition of deputy factions. The Constitution of Ukraine has been published by President Viktor Yanukovych. Following is a list of steps to appoint and dismissing from office the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine, Petro Poroshenko, has announced a series of executive orders, including: The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has announced a raft of constitutional amendments to the constitution of the country. The Constitution of Ukraine has published the rules of preparation and preliminary consideration of issues falling within its powers. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has ordered the creation of a temporary ad hoc and interim investigative commission. The Constitution of Ukraine has been published by the Supreme Court of the country. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has signed a decree which includes the principles of the country's constitution. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has signed a draft law on the country's budget. Here is the full text of the draft laws. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has signed a draft law on the State Budget. The President of Ukraine, elected by the will of the people, has taken the oath of swear allegiance to Ukraine. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree which requires the removal of the President of Ukraine from the office. Here is the full text of his declaration. Following is a list of steps to appoint and dismiss heads of the National Bank of Ukraine and other military formations. President Viktor Yanukovych has issued a decree and directive to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has signed a decree to establish the National Security and Defence Council. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, is to be removed from office under the procedure of impeachment. Here is the full text of the Constitution. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has submitted a resolution to the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukraine. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has ordered the Cabinet of Ministers of the country to carry out a series of measures including: President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree which makes it easier to register executive authorities in Ukraine. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree on constitutional reforms in Ukraine. Here is the full text of the constitution. The draft of Ukraine's Supreme Court has been published. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has announced that the country's Supreme Court will be elected by secret ballot. Here is the full text of the Constitution. The law on judicial proceedings in Ukraine has been published by President Viktor Yanukovych. Here are the key principles of the law. The High Council of Justice of Ukraine has been elected by the President of the Supreme Court. Here is a guide to how it will work. The High Council of Justice of Ukraine has published its Constitution. The European Court of Human Rights has published a new law which aims to limit the representation of minor or juvenile people in court. The Constitution of Crimea has been published by the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine, Petro Poroshenko, has ordered the suspension of the powers and procedures for the formation and operation of a parliamentary body. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has announced that the Crimea region will be given the powers to establish a state of emergency. Local authorities in England and Wales have been granted the powers of village, settlement and city councils. The States of England and Wales has published the rules on local self-government. Here is a guide to the law. The Constitution of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian Parliament. Here is the full text of the constitution. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine will be appointed by a special plenary meeting of its judges by secret ballot. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has been given the powers of a judge and their families. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has issued a constitutional complaint against President Viktor Yanukovych. A draft law on amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine has been published by President Viktor Yanukovych. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has published a draft law on amendments to the country's Constitution. Here is the full text of the law. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has published a draft law on amendments to the country's new constitutional constitution. Here is the full outline of the key points. The Constitution of Ukraine has been published by the Supreme Court of the country. Here is a guide to the process of implementing the constitution. The Supreme Court of Ukraine will exercise their powers for five years after the effective date of this Constitution. The High Council of Justice in Ukraine will be appointed to judicial office within their term of office no longer than until 30 April 2019. Here is a guide to how it will work. The President of Ukraine, Petro Poroshenko, has announced that the Supreme Court of the country will have the right to transfer judges from one court to another within two years. Here is a guide to the process. The Constitution of Ukraine has changed its rules for representation in courts until the end of January 2020.