The Law of Ukraine on Medicinal products has been published by the government. Pharmaceuticals, finished pharmaceutical products and radioactive medicinal products have been published in the Ukrainian government. The terms of the State Pharmacopoeia of Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree which aims to protect the citizens of Ukraine from harm caused by the on-label use of medicinal products. The government has published the principles and conditions of patenting a medicinal product. The government has published its rules on the clinical trials of medicinal products for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) treatment. Here is a guide to the process. Clinical trials of medicinal products involving minors and juveniles in England and Wales have been banned. The law which regulates the use of medicinal products in Ukraine has been published by the government. The States of America, the Swiss Confederation, Japan, Australia, Canada and Canada have submitted an application for state registration of a medicinal product. The Ukrainian government has published a law which requires the registration of medicinal product in the country. The Ukrainian government has published a document review of the procedures for state registration of medicinal products. The government of Ukraine has published a draft law which aims to protect information provided in the field of healthcare. The law on medicinal products in Ukraine has been published by the country's central executive authority. The Ukrainian government has issued a written application for state registration of medicinal products. Ukraine's healthcare registering authority has issued a deadline for applications for state registration of medicinal products. The States of America has been ordered to refuse the state registration of a medicinal product. The Ukrainian government has announced that it will refused to register a medicinal product in the field of healthcare. The law on medicinal products in Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. The European Union has published a list of procedures for the state registration of the medicinal product submitted to Ukraine. The executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state registration of a medicinal product purchased by an individual authorised to make procurements in the field of medical healthcare has published the rules for refusing or rejecting these procedures. A request to register a medicinal product in Ukraine has been submitted to the Supreme Court. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed guide to the process of registering medicinal products in the country. The Law on Medicinal Products of Ukraine has come into force. This article contains details of the state registration of vaccines or other medical immunobiological preparations for the specific prevention of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) under the obligation for emergency medical use. The government of Ukraine has announced that it will approve the state registration of vaccines or other medical immunobiological preparations for emergency medical use. Here is a summary of the key points. 1. In circumstances specified in part one of this article, vaccines or other medical immunobiological preparations for the prevention of coronavirus (COVID-19) may be registered for emergency medical use. The European Union's law on vaccine registration in Ukraine has been published by the European Commission. Here is a guide to the rules and conditions of the law. 1. Registration certificates The European Union has published a series of documents on the rules surrounding the registration of vaccines and other medical immunobiological preparations in Ukraine. The executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state registration for emergency medical use of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine has announced a raft of rules including: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has approved the rules on the registration of vaccines and other medical immunobiological preparations for the specific prevention of coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Here is a summary of the key points. The government has published the rules for issuing a licence to medicinal product manufacturing. The name of a medicinal product is to be indicated in Braille on the outer package of the product. The Ukrainian government has issued a law which makes it easier for the importation of unregistered medicinal products into the territory of Ukraine. The government of Ukraine has published the latest chapter in the law on state quality control of medicinal products. President Viktor Yanukovych has announced the appointment of a special inspector for medicinal products in Ukraine. The law on medicinal products in Ukraine has been published by the government. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree that sanctions officials of the country's central executive authority over the quality and safety of medicinal products. A licence for importing medicinal products into the territory of Ukraine has been issued by the country's central executive authority in the field of healthcare. The government of Ukraine has published a new law which aims to control the quality and safety of medicinal products imported into the customs territory of the country. The government of Ukraine has approved a law requiring the possession of licences for imports of medicinal products. The European Union has published a draft law which allows the import of unregistered medicinal products into the customs territory of Ukraine. The government has ordered the import of medicinal products to the territory of Ukraine. The government of Ukraine has announced a new law allowing foreign countries to import medicinal products from the country. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the importation of unregistered medicinal products into the country. A licence is being issued to business entities in the field of healthcare. The healthcare licensing authority has published a range of details about the use of the logo to identify licensees entitled to conduct electronic retailing of medicinal products. The Law on the delivery of medicinal products to the final consumer in Ukraine has been published by the government. The law on electronic retailing of medicinal products in England and Wales has been published. The law on electronic retailing of medicinal products in Ukraine has been published by the licensing authority. The Law on the sale of medicinal products in Ukraine has been published by the government. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree which aims to establish the state policy in the field of healthcare in Ukraine. Here is the full text of the rules. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree on the law on advertising of medicinal products in Ukraine.