The Law of Ukraine has been published by the Supreme Court. This is a summary of the key facts about the creation and operation of trans-border industrial parks in Ukraine. The Law of Ukraine on Industrial Parks, which includes the right to create industrial parks, has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the law. The Law on Industrial Parks in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a summary of the law. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the use of industrial parks in the country. Here is a summary of the key facts. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed list of the rules and conditions for the development of industrial parks in the country. This list contains the key points to the process of creation. A detailed guide to the process of inclusion of industrial parks in the register of the state authority in Ukraine. A detailed guide to the process of making a decision on the creation of an industrial park in Ukraine. A detailed list of key facts about the creation of an industrial park in England and Wales. The planning process for the creation of a new industrial park has been published by the National Planning Commission. Here are the key points to the process. The tender process for the creation and operation of a proposed industrial park in Bristol has been published. Here is the guide to the process. The terms of the contract on creation and operation of an industrial park have been announced by the tender commission. The contract on creation and operation of Guernsey's industrial park has been published by the government. Here is a guide to the process. The owners of the industrial park have been issued with a new law which makes it easier for the management company to withdraw the status of participants. The Constitutional Rights and responsibilities of the initiator of creation and management company of an industrial park have been published by the Treasury. 1. The management company responsible for the creation and operation of Ukraine's industrial park is obliged: The Isle of Wight Industrial Park Authority has published the rules and conditions of its management company. The creation and operation of a major industrial park in the Isle of Wight have been announced by the government. Here is the full list of the key facts. The Ukrainian government has published a law on the creation and operation of industrial parks. Here is the full text of the law. The terms of the contract on performing economic activity within the scope of an industrial park have been published by the government. The terms and conditions of a new contract on creation and operation of an industrial park have been published by the Treasury Authority. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a law requiring business entities to keep separate accounting and tax reporting of economic activity within the scope of an industrial park. The Law on Industrial Parks in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has announced a raft of changes to the country's land code and customs rules. Here is the full text of the new laws. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a law which aims to regulate the creation and operation of industrial parks in the city of Kyiv. 1.