The Water Code of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Waters are a range of types of water being used by households and industrial communities in the upper part of the Earth's crust. Water intake facility, hydroeconomic systems, multi-purpose reservoir, hydraulic structures of seaports and hydrographic zoning. A list of key facts about water quality in England and Wales: A list of key facts about the state of water bodies in England and Wales. Water protection and reproduction of water resources in England and Wales have been revealed by the government. Here are some of the key facts about the water management system. The chemical state of a subsoil water array and artificial surface water bodies are among the areas where water quality is regulated by the Sode. The Ukrainian government has published a detailed list of water bodies of national significance in the wake of the annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region. Crimea's water relations regulation laws have been published by the Ukrainian government. Authorities in Ukraine have published a list of key laws in the field of water relations regulation, including: Crimea's government has published a list of key areas in the field of water relations regulation. Authorities in England and Wales have been given the power to carry out a series of measures in the field of water relations regulation. Here are the key points. The Scottish government has published the latest chapter in a series of laws in the water use and protection of water resources. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree which aims to establish the water use and protection of water resources in the territory of Ukraine. The government of Ukraine has published a draft of water management plans for river basins. This is a summary of the rules and regulations on basin councils in Ukraine. Following is a list of key steps being taken by the Ukrainian authorities in the field of water use. The government has published a summary of the key areas of its state policy in the field of environmental protection, management and control over the use and reproduction of water resources. The government of Crimea has published a draft of its policy on environmental protection. The powers of the government to implement a state policy in the field of water management, administration and control over the use and reproduction ofwater resources have been published by the Treasury. Here is the full list of key areas being considered. Following the Chornobyl catastrophe, the government has announced a raft of measures including: The powers of the central executive authority in Ukraine in the field of water management development have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of a summary of how it handled the issue. The government of Crimea has published a summary of the powers of its ministers in the field of management and control over water use and protection and reproduction of water resources. The Ukrainian government has published a code of rules on control over water use and protection and reproduction of water resources. The government of Ukraine has approved the rules on state water monitoring. The government of Ukraine has published a list of measures to ensure the environmental safety in the field of water use. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree on how to implement the state accounting and analysis of water use in Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has published a detailed list of measures to regulate water use and protection and reproduction of water resources. The government of Ukraine has published a list of standards for environmental safety of water use. The ecological standards for water quality in Ukraine have been published by the government. The government of Ukraine has published the latest chapter in its policy on water use. The Ukrainian government has published a list of businesses and organisations providing water transfer to low-water regions. Crimea's government has published a list of key measures to protect water from pollution. The Code of Conduct has been published by the Ministry of Health. Here is the full text of the code. Crimea's authorities have established places where bathing, swimming on boats and watering of animals are prohibited. Authorities in Ukraine have issued a notice giving the public the right to use special water use. The issuance of a special water use permit has been announced by the government. The executive authorities in the field of environmental protection are being asked to give free conclusions on the possibility of issueing a special water use permit. The Special Water Use Permits Act has been published by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. The government of Ukraine has dissolved the lease contract for the use of water bodies. The use of water bodies for air transport needs to be regulated by the Ukrainian government. The government of Ukraine has issued a statement to the authorities responsible for the use of water bodies in the exclusion zone and the zone of unconditional resettlement of the region affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The government of Ukraine has issued an order to revoke the special water use permit. Here is a guide to the issue. The use of potable subsoil waters in England and Wales is to be reviewed by the government. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed guide to the use and use of water bodies in the country. The Ukrainian government has published a code of conduct for the use of water bodies for industrial and hydropower needs in the autonomous Republic of Crimea. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the use of water bodies for the water transport needs. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the use of water bodies for fisheries and hunting needs. Crimea's environmental laws have been published by the government of Ukraine. Here is a summary of the rules and conditions for discharge of waste water into surface water bodies. Authorities in Crimea have published the rules and conditions for the discharge of polluted drainage waters into surface water bodies. The government's water management policy in the field of environmental protection has been published by the Treasury. Here is a guide to how it works. This is a full transcript of how rivers of Ukraine are operating. The Ukrainian government has published a code of practice which aims to protect the ecological and chemical condition of rivers. The government of Ukraine has published a draft of its rules on the use of waters exposed to radioactive contamination. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has announced the use of water fund lands in the country. The government of Crimea has agreed to establish a water protection zone in the territory of Sevastopol. The code of conduct for water protection zones and protective belts in Ukraine has been published by the government. Coastal protective belts have been established along the coast of the seas, bays, estuaries and islands. The right to use land plots of protective belts along rivers, sea bays and estuaries in the Ukrainian coastline is a legal requirement. The government has issued a raft of rules on the use of coastal protective belts along the seas, bays and estuaries as well as on islands in inland waters. The Code of Conduct in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. The code includes a number of measures to protect water bodies from pollution, damage and destruction. The boundaries of sanitary protection zones of water bodies in Ukraine have been published by the government. The Isle of Man's fishery water bodies have been given the go-ahead by the Ministry of Environment. Here is a guide to the issue. The government has issued a raft of rules to protect water from pollution and clogging. The government has published the rules for the protection of water bodies and subsoil waters. The government of Crimea has published a draft of its policy on subsoil water pollution and environmental protection. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed guide to the design and estimate of water management and other facilities. Authorities in Ukraine have approved a series of flood risk management plans. The government's state policy on water management development has been published in the House of Commons. The Supreme Court has ordered the immediate release of damages caused by the water law violation. The government of Ukraine has issued a warning to the public on how to protect the state of waters of the country. Here is the full list of those charged. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree which makes it easier for those guilty of violating water legislation to settle damages caused by them.