The Transport Law of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on the role and role of transport in public production. The government of Ukraine has issued a statement in which it describes the principles of mutual benefit, equal and full responsibility of transport companies. The government of Ukraine has announced the introduction of tariffs on public transport services in the country. Here is a guide to the issue. The government of Ukraine has issued a decree on the use of land provided for use by transport companies. The government of Ukraine has published the terms and regulations of certain types of transport in the country. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has published a list of military cargo and the procedure for protecting and escorting them by guards. The Isle of Man's Transport Authority has issued a statement to the public in the wake of the blockage of transport communications. The rules of traffic safety on the territory of Ukraine have been published by the government. Measures of state supervision are being carried out by the Ukrainian government in the field of land transport safety. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree on the powers of the authorities in charge of implementing the state policy on land transport safety in Ukraine. Here are the key areas of responsibility. Ukraine's maritime and river transport authorities have been appointed to a spending review of their work. Ukraine's maritime and river transport authorities have been appointed to carry out a series of inspections. President Viktor Yanukovych has appointed a new chief executive to ensure the safety of maritime and river transport in Ukraine. Here is the full list of the key steps to implementing these rules. The government of Ukraine has announced a strike by transport companies in the capital, Kiev. Here is the full text of the announcement. Railway transport lands are to be given the go-ahead by the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Transport has announced the introduction of technical supervision on river vessels. The government of Ukraine has announced the introduction of a new system of navigation supervision on river vessels. The government has published a list of land provided to road organisations for use in England and Wales. The Departmental Transport Authority has published the rules of the country's transport system. The government of Ukraine has published a draft of its transport policy. Here is the full text of the draft.