The Subsoil Code of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the subject. The Ukrainian government has published a statement which describes the use of subsoil in the country. The Ministry of Environmental Protection has published a list of minerals in the country's constitution. This is a summary of the key points in the code of conduct established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Crimea's laws on mining relations regulation have been published by the National Assembly. Here is a summary of the key points in the law. Authorities in charge of public administration in the field of geological study, use and protection of subsoil have the right to ensure transparency in extractive industries. The European Union has published the rules on the use of subsoil in Ukraine. Here is the full text of the law. Authorities in Ukraine have issued an environmental assessment of amber-bearing subsoil areas located on disturbed land plots. The government of Ukraine has issued a deadline for auction winners for the sale of special subsoil use permits. The Central Executive Authority of Ukraine has issued a tender for the conclusion of production sharing agreements. This is a full text of the law on privatisation of coal mining enterprises in Ukraine. Mining allotments in Ukraine will be provided to investors with a production sharing agreement, according to the Ukrainian government. The government has published a list of land plots located within the subsoil area to be provided for use for mining purposes. The Ministry of Justice has published the rules on the use of land in Ukraine. Here is a guide to the law on state registration of corporeal rights to real estate and their encumbrances. The government of Ukraine has issued a new code of rules on the use of subsoil and other harmful substances. The government of Crimea has published the rules and rights of landowners and land users in the region. The Ministry of Finance has published a list of key rules for the use of subsoil in the extractive industries in Ukraine. The government of Ukraine has issued a statement to the public on the issue of damages caused by the violation of subsoil users' rights. The rules and conditions of subsoil use in the territory of Ukraine have been published by the government. The Ukrainian government has published a detailed list of rules and regulations which apply to the authorities in the field of geological study and rational use of subsoil. The geological study of subsoil is to be carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. The government of Ukraine has issued a statement to the Cabinet of Ministers about the geological study of subsoil. The Ukrainian government has published a detailed list of rules on how to establish the state record of mineral deposits, reserves and manifestations. The government of Ukraine has issued a statement to the government on the state balance of mineral reserves and manifestations. The government of Ukraine has published the latest sections of the country's mining laws. The government of Ukraine has issued a raft of measures to ensure the safety of people, property and the environment during the development of mineral deposits and mineral raw materials. President Viktor Yanukovych has published the rules of mining in Ukraine. Here is the full text of the government's latest proposals. The government has issued a series of rules to ensure the safety of mineral deposits and processing mineral raw materials. The production sharing agreement has been signed by the government of Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has issued a statement in favour of the use of subsoil in the field of geological exploration. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on building on mineral deposits areas of national significance. The Ministry of Justice has published a statement in which describes the powers of the state geological control authority in Ukraine. Ukraine's state geological control authority has been appointed by the Ministry of Geology and Natural Resources. The Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources has published a summary of the powers of Ukraine's state mining supervision authority to supervise the conduct of geological exploration, use and protection of subsoil. The Law of Ukraine on Production  sharing agreements has been published. The government of Ukraine has agreed to establish the terms of products sharing agreements. The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers.