The Law of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian Constitutional Court. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on religious freedom in the country. Here is a guide to the law. 1. Coercion The Constitution of Ukraine has been published by President Viktor Yanukovych. The European Union has published a law which makes it easier to impose restrictions on religious education. The Law No. 2267- VIII of 17 January 2019 has been published by the Ukrainian government. The Republic of Ukraine's religious directorates and centres have the right to operate in the manner provided in Article 14 of the Law. The charter (regulations) of a religious organisation operating in Ukraine will be determined under the current law. 1) The charter (regulations) of a religious organisation (association) operating in Ukraine The religious community is to be given a new version of its charter (regulations) following the introduction of the new law. The religious charter (regulations) submitted to the central executive authority in the field of religion have been published by the Ministry of State. Here is the full text of the application. The law on registering religious organisations in or outside Ukraine has been published by the government. Here is a guide to the process. A new version of the charter (regulations) of a monastery, religious brotherhood or missionary society is to be submitted to the government. A new law has been submitted to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to submit a list of documents determined in part 3 of Article 14 of this Law. A new law has been published in Ukraine which makes it easier to identify deficiencies in the register of charters (regulations) of religious organisations. The law on religious organisations in Ukraine has been published by the Court of Appeal. The government of Ukraine has changed its law on the transfer of religious buildings and property owned by the state to the neighbouring Crimea region. The transfer of religious buildings and property to a state-owned church in the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, has been given the go-ahead by the government. The religious building of St. Andrew's Church of the National Sanctuary in Kyiv is a nationally significant site. The Decree No. 12-92 of 26 December 1992 has changed the law on the right of religious organisations to own property owned by citizens, organisations or transferred into the customs territory of Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has published the rules for restoration and repair of religious buildings. Public worship services and religious rites in hospitals, homes for the elderly and persons with disabilities are to be held each time in cases of urgency. Here is the full text of the law. The religious organisation and believers have been given the right to carry out charitable activities. Here is the full text of the law. The latest amendments to the law on freedom of conscience and religious organisations have been published. The law on freedom of conscience and religious beliefs in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. The former president of the Ukrainian Soviet Union has died.