temporary measures to provide support to business entities performing activity on the territory of the anti-terrorist operation . it is prohibited to charge the citizens of Ukraine who are registered and permanently reside in or resettled in the period starting from 14 April 2014 . banks and other financial institutions, as well as creditors, are obliged to cancel penalties and/or fines accrued on the principal amount of debt under credit agreements and loan agreements . provisions of parts one and two of this Article shall not apply to the accrual of penalties . for temporarily displaced higher education institutions, a moratorium is introduced for the period of the anti-terrorist operation. officials authorised by law to bring about state supervision (control) in the field of economic activity during the period and within the territory of the anti-terrorist operation . unscheduled inspections of business entities classified as high-risk business entities . registration related to changing the location of legal entities and place of residence of individual entrepreneurs by state registrars . registration related to changing the composition of founders (participants) and directors may be carried out for legal entities under public law . peculiarities of the dissolution of legal entities located within the territory of the anti-terrorist operation shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . temporary displaced higher education institutions and temporarily displaced scientific institutions have the right to use the property conveyed to them . temporary displaced higher education institutions and temporarily displaced scientific institutions are not responsible for the condition of property located within the temporarily occupied territory . the state contributes to the restoration of the facilities and resources of temporarily-displaced institutions and scientific institutions . employees who did not start performing their duties at the new location are considered to have refused to transfer to a job in another area . exempt business entities from the payment for using land plots that are in state and municipal ownership in the settlements according to the lists provided by part 4 of Article 4 of this Law . Article 8. Moratorium on penalties for late payment for housing and utility services (water supply, gas, electricity, heating, upkeep and maintenance of housing and surrounding grounds) if the last place of residence of the testator is located within the settlement where the state authorities temporarily do not exercise or do not fully exercise their powers, the place of inheritance opening shall be the place where the first application was filed . if a mortgaged immovable property is owned by citizens of Ukraine (including individual entrepreneurs) or legal entities – small and medium-sized businesses, the effect of the Law of Ukraine "On mortgage" is suspended . the place of opening of the inheritance shall be the place where the first application was filed . an inheritance case is subject to registration in the Inheritance Register . for persons whose place of residence is the territory of the anti-terrorist operation, the central executive authority in charge of shaping state policy in the field of education . identity documents and documents confirming the citizenship of Ukraine for citizens who live in the area of the anti-terrorist operation shall be registered by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of migration (immigration and emigration) at the actual place of the person's residence or stay . information from the state voter register may be used to enter information about the place of residence into identity documents . the effect of this law shall apply to the period of conducting the anti-terrorist operation and six months after the date of its termination . a certificate on force majeure (circumstances of insuperable force) for small businesses shall be issued free of charge . force majeure circumstances (circumstances of insuperable force) are extraordinary and unavoidable circumstances . they objectively make it impossible to fulfil the obligations stipulated in the terms of the agreement (contract, treaty, etc.) they include enemy attacks, blockades, military embargoes, actions of the foreign enemy, general military mobilisation, military actions, declared and undeclared war . business entities operating in the territory of the anti-terrorist operation shall be exempt from liability for non-compliance with the deadlines provided for financial reporting . within ten days from the date of publication of this Law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall ensure adoption of regulatory legal acts resulting from this Law . the National bank of Ukraine shall: give appropriate orders to all banks in the territory of Ukraine, regardless of the form of ownership . the possibility of making non-cash payments and receiving cash in an extensive network of ATMs and cash withdrawal points of partner banks .