based on the provisions of the constitution, the declaration of state sovereignty of Ukraine, the verkhovna Rada of Ukraine has adopted the following law . to protect the national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine . sanctions may be imposed by Ukraine against a foreign state, legal entity, a non-resident individual, foreigners, stateless persons, and entities engaged in terrorist activities . sanctions shall be based on the principles of legality, transparency, objectivity, fitness for a purpose and effectiveness . sanctions shall also apply to the committing by a foreign state, a legal entity, or a non-resident individual, foreigner, stateless person, and entities engaged in terrorist activities . under the Law, the following types of sanctions shall apply: 1) asset blocking — temporary restriction of the person's right to use and dispose of property belonging to him or her . introducing additional measures in the field of environmental, sanitary, phytosanitary and veterinary control . prohibiting the issue of permits, licences of the National Bank of Ukraine for making investments in a foreign state, placement of currency valuables on accounts and deposits within the territory of Ukraine . terminating trade agreements, joint projects and industrial programmes in certain areas, in particular in the fields of security and defence . sanctions shall not be measures to protect the rights and interests of subjects of foreign economic activity . proposals concerning the imposition, cancellation and amendment of sanctions shall be submitted to the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine . decisions shall enter into force upon the adoption of the Resolution of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine and shall be binding . sanctions against certain foreign legal entities, legal entities under the control of a foreign legal entity or a non-resident individual, foreigners, stateless persons, and entities engaged in terrorist activities (personal sanctions) the relevant decision shall enter into force upon the issuance of the decree of the President of Ukraine and shall be binding . a decision on the imposition of sanctions must contain a time limit for their imposition, except in case of sanctions that result in the termination of rights .