the labour code of Ukraine defines the legal bases and guarantees for Ukrainian citizens to exercise the right to dispose of their abilities for productive and creative work . it regulates labour relations of all employees, contributing to the growth of labour productivity, improving the quality of work, improving efficiency of social production . discrimination in the sphere of work is prohibited, in particular violation of the principle of equality of rights and opportunities . legislation regulates labour relations of employees of all enterprises, institutions, organisations . guarantees for employment, labour protection, labour of women, youth, persons with disabilities are provided . labour relations of citizens of Ukraine who work abroad are regulated in accordance with the Law of Ukraine "On private international law" Article 8-1. Correlation between international labour agreements and Ukrainian legislation . enterprises, institutions, organisations within the limits of their powers and at their own expense can establish additional, in comparison with the legislation, labour and social benefits . a collective contract is concluded between the owner and the primary trade union organisation . a primary union organisation that refuses to participate in a joint representative body is deprived of the right to represent interests of workers . the collective contract may include additional guarantees, social benefits . collective contracts are subject to notification registration by local executive authorities or local self-government bodies . collective contracts that worsen, in comparison with the current legislation and agreements, the situation of employees are invalid . the collective contract remains in force during the period of its validity, but not more than one year . if the owner or the body (person) that is authorised by him has violated the conditions of the collective contract, the trade unions that concluded it has the right to send to the owner a submission to eliminate these violations . the scope of application of the contract is determined by the laws of Ukraine . according to the constitution of Ukraine, any direct or indirect restriction of rights when concluding, changing and termination of an employment contract is not allowed . requirements regarding the age, level of education, health status of the employee may be established by the legislation of Ukraine . an employee cannot be allowed to work without concluding an employment contract . it is forbidden to conclude an agreement with a citizen for whom work is contraindicated for health reasons . the parties may agree on a probation to verify the employee's compliance with the work . probation period is not established in case of employment of persons under eighteen years old, young employees upon graduation from vocational educational institutions . probation period, when entering employment of workers, may not exceed one month . in case the owner or his authorised body found a discrepancy of the employee with the position for which he was hired, he has the right to dismiss such an employee . a remote worker must be familiarised with the internal labour regulations and collective contract . an employee should carry out the work entrusted to him personally and has no right to delegate its performance to another person . transfer to another job at the same enterprise, institution, organisation or to another locality is allowed only with the consent of an employee . the owner or the authorised body does not have the right to transfer an employee to work that is contraindicated to him for health reasons . an employee who reported about possible facts of corruption or corruption-related offenses cannot be fired or forced to leave . temporary transfer to another job is prohibited for pregnant women without their consent . grounds for terminating an employment contract are: agreement of the parties, expiration of the validity period, conscription or enrolment of an employee or owner to military service, assignment to alternative (non-military) service . employees may be transferred with their consent, taking into account their speciality and qualifications . the change of subordination of an enterprise, institution, organisation does not terminate the employment contract . termination of an employment contract concluded for an indefinite period at the initiative of the owner or his authorized body is possible only in case of reduction of the number or staff of employees . employee shall be entitled to terminate labour agreement concluded for indefinite period . employee's letter of resignation was caused by impossibility to continue working . fixed-term employment contract is subject to early termination at the request of an employee . employment contracts that have been renegotiated one or more times are considered to be concluded for an indefinite period . termination of an employment contract at the initiative of the owner or his authorized body . for employees who have lost their ability to work due to work injury or occupational disease, the place of work is retained . dismissal on the grounds specified in clauses 1, 2 and 6 of this Article is allowed if it is impossible to transfer an employee with his consent to another job . dismissal of an employee at the initiative of the owner or his authorized body during the period of his temporary disability is not allowed . in addition to the grounds provided for in Article 40 of this Code, an employment contract may also be terminated under certain conditions . employee has a real or potential conflict of interest, which is permanent and cannot be resolved in any other way provided for by the Law of Ukraine "On the Prevention of Corruption" article 42. preferential right to remain at work when employees are released due to changes in the organization of production and labour . employees from among former servicemen of compulsory military service, military service on conscription during mobilization, for a special period . employees who have less than three years left before reaching retirement age are entitled to receive pension payments . conditions for restoration of social benefits that employees had before dismissal are determined by the collective contract . in cases provided for by the labor legislation, the elected body of the primary trade union organization shall consider, within fifteen days, a reasonable written submission from the owner or his authorized body . consideration of a submission in the absence of an employee is allowed only upon his written application . in case of second non-appearance of the employee (his representative), the submission may be considered in his absence . termination of the employment contract with an employee is carried out by the owner or his authorized body without going to the elected body of the primary trade union organization (trade union representative) court suspends proceedings on the case, requests consent and considers the dispute on the merits . termination of an employment contract at the initiative of the owner is allowed in the following cases: liquidation of an enterprise, institution, organization . termination of an employment contract at the initiative of the owner or his authorized body without consent of the relevant elected body of the primary trade union organization (trade union representative) may also be provided for by the legislation . in the case of conscription or enrolment to military service, assignment to alternative (non-military) service – in the amount of two minimum wages . the elected body of the primary trade union organisation (trade union representative) may appeal in court against activities or inaction of officials, bodies which are competent to terminate an employment contract with the head of an enterprise, institution, organisation . Article 46. Suspension of employees from work by the owner or by a body authorised by him is allowed in the following cases: appearing at work in a state of intoxication . for employees who start work for the first time, a work record book is drawn up not later than five days . the procedure for maintaining work record books is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . employees are personally warned about the upcoming dismissal two months in advance . dismissal due to changes in the organisation of production and labour is taken into account . employees are personally warned not later than 30 calendar days in advance of the upcoming dismissal . trade unions have the right to make proposals to the relevant authorities to postpone or suspend or cancel measures related to the dismissal of employees . the standard working hours of employees may not exceed 40 hours per week . enterprises and organisations may set lower working hours standard than provided for in Part 1 of this Article when concluding a collective agreement . working hours for employees aged 16 to 18 – 36 hours per week, for persons aged 15 to 16 (students aged 14 to 15 working within the period of vacations) . working hours of employees other than those specified in Article 51 of this Code shall be reduced by one hour for both five-day and six-day working weeks . the duration of night work is equal to the day work in those cases when it is necessary under the production conditions . pregnant women and women who have children under the age of 3 are not allowed to work at night . employees interchange in shifts evenly in the manner prescribed by the internal labour regulation rules . the appointment of an employee for two shifts in a row is prohibited . flexible working hours may be established by order of the owner or their authorised body . flexible working hours are not used in continuously operating enterprises, institutions, organisations . in case of production and technical necessity, the owner may temporarily apply the general work mode at the enterprise, institution, or organisation . if an employee is assigned for a business trip, they are subject to the work mode established there . home-based work is a form of work organisation wherein work is performed by an employee at their place of residence or in other premises designated by them . the employee has the right to change the workplace, provided that they notify the owner or their authorised body at least three working days before such a change . Performing home based work does not entail changes in standardisation, remuneration and does not affect the scope of labour rights of employees . home-based work may be introduced by order of the owner or their authorised body . the employee becomes aware of such an order within two days from the date of its acceptance . remote work is a form of work organisation wherein work is performed outside the work premises . working remotely, the employee splits working time at their own discretion . an employee who performs remote work is guaranteed a period of free time for rest . the employee may interrupt any information and telecommunication with the owner or their authorised body . employee may request a temporary, for a period of up to two months, transfer to remote work . remote work may be introduced by order of the owner or their authorised body . pregnant women, employees who have a child under the age of three may work remotely . overtime work is considered to be work beyond the established working day . the owner or their authorised body may use overtime work only in exceptional cases . pregnant women and women having children under three may not be engaged in overtime work . overtime work may only be carried out with the permission of the elected body of the primary trade union organisation (trade union representative) of the enterprise, institution, organisation . overtime work shall not exceed four hours for each employee for two consecutive days and 120 hours per year . employees are given a break for rest and meals lasting no more than two hours . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may recommend the owners of enterprises, institutions, and organisations to move weekends and working days . weekend days are set by local councils at enterprises, institution, organisations related to public services . involvement of individual employees to work on weekend is only permitted by the elected body of the primary trade union organisation . the involvement of employees to work on the weekend is carried out under a written order of the owner or their authorised body . remuneration on a weekend day is calculated according to Article 107 of this Code . holidays are set on the following days: 1 January – new year 7 January and 25 December – christmas 8 march – international women's day . annual leave shall be at least 24 calendar days for a full year of work . leave for preparation and participation in competitions is provided to employees who participate in national and international sports competitions . sick days, as well as maternity leave, are not included in the annual leave . annual basic and additional full-time leave in the first year of work is provided to employees after six months of continuous work at the enterprise, institution, organisation . annual leave for the second and subsequent years of work may be granted to the employee at any time of the corresponding working year . splitting annual leave of any duration is allowed at the request of the employee, provided the main continuous part of it will be at least 14 calendar days . annual leave shall be shifted or extended in the following cases . temporary incapacity of the employee certified in the prescribed manner . full annual leave is granted before the beginning of a six-month period of continuous work . if an employee transferred to another enterprise, institution, organisation, did not fully or partially use the annual basic and additional leave . the length of service entitling to annual basic leave includes time of actual work (including part-time work) time when the employee did not actually work but, according to the law, the workplace (position) and salary were retained . a part of annual leave may be substituted with compensation at the employee’s will . for persons under the age of eighteen, the substitution of all kinds of leaves is not allowed . in the case of an employee's death, compensation for unused days of annual leaves shall be paid to heirs . labour standards are subject to mandatory amendment with new ones . achieving a high level of production by an individual employee, a team is not a reason to revise the rules . temporary and one-time standards are set for individual works that are of a one time nature . remuneration is an award, calculated, as a rule, in monetary terms, that the owner or their authorised body pays to the employee for the work performed . the minimum wage is the minimum amount established by law for the monthly (hourly) rate of work performed by the employee . article 92. Retention of previous rates when implementing an invention, utility model, industrial design . minimum wage is a state social guarantee, mandatory throughout Ukraine . remuneration systems are base-salary and other systems formed on the basis of the work complexity assessments and the qualifications of employees . qualification requirements of employees, their tasks, responsibilities, specialisation are determined by professional standards . article 97. Remuneration of employees is carried out by hourly, piece-rate or other remuneration systems . payment can be made based on the results of individual and collective work . specific amounts of base salaries (official salaries) and piece wage rates for employees, salaries for officers, as well as salary supplements, surcharges, bonuses, rewards . work with harmful and dangerous working conditions, work with special natural geographical and geological conditions, and conditions of increased health risk are subject to higher wages . working conditions for part-time employees of state enterprises, institutions and organisations are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . overtime work is paid a surcharge of 100 per cent of the base salary of an employee of the appropriate qualification – for all hours worked overtime . compensation for overtime work by providing time off is not allowed . work on holidays and days off is paid in a double amount . remuneration for the manufacture of products found defective is made at reduced rates . downtime by no fault of the employee is paid at the rate of not less than two-thirds of the base salary set for the employee category (official salary) for the period of development of new production (products), the owner or their authorised body may make additional payments to employees . when transferring an employee to another permanent lower-paid job, the employee retains their previous average earnings for two weeks from the date of transfer . if the day of salary payment coincides with a weekend day, holiday or day off, wage shall be paid the day before . wages for employees are paid for the entire period of annual leave no later than three days before the holiday . in the absence of a dispute over the amount that is due to the dismissed employee, the enterprise, institution, organisation, shall pay the employee their average earnings for the entire period of delay . employees involved in the performance of duties under the laws of Ukraine "On general military duty and military service" and "On alternative (non-military) service" are provided with guarantees and benefits according to these laws. employees call up for military service, mobilised, called up for a special period or enlisted under contract, the job, position and average earnings are retained . guarantees specified in Part 3 of this Article shall be retained for employees who have been injured (suffered other health damages) during military service . employees have the right for reimbursement of expenses and other compensation related to business trips . guarantees for employees referred for examination to a medical facility are retained . a person who has expressed a desire to donate blood and/or blood components is released from work with the retention of average earnings . employees-authors of inventions, utility models, industrial designs, and innovation proposals retain the average earnings when dismissed from the main job . when implementing an invention, utility model, industrial design or innovation proposal at another enterprise, institution, organisation, the employee retains a position at the place of permanent employment . deductions from wage can be made only in cases provided by the legislation of Ukraine . for each wage payment, the total amount of all deductions cannot exceed twenty per cent, and in cases separately provided by the legislation of Ukraine – fifty per cent of wage that is subject to payment to the employee . the restrictions established by Parts 1 and 2 of this Article do not apply to deductions from wages in the course of correctional work and the recovery of alimony . employees shall treat the property of the enterprise, institution, organisation and take measures to prevent damage . employees are financially liable for damage or destruction of materials, semi-finished products, output (products) due to negligence in the amount of damage caused by their fault, but not more than their average monthly earnings . employee is fully liable for damage caused to the enterprise, institution, organisation . extent of financial liability of employees for damage by theft, intentional damage, shortage or loss of certain property and other valuables are established by law . written agreement on full financial liability may be concluded with an employee who has reached the age of eighteen . collective (brigade) financial liability is established by the owner or their authorised body . the amount of damage caused to the enterprise, institution, organisation is determined by the actual losses, accounting data and the inventory value (prime cost) of tangible assets after deduction of depreciation according to the established standards . the amount of damages caused by the fault of several employees is determined for each of them . compensation is made by order of the owner or their authorised body . order must be made no later than two weeks from the date of detection of damage . court takes into account degree of guilt of the employee and specific circumstances . employees shall work honestly and conscientiously, comply with the orders of the owner or their authorised body . the personnel creates an atmosphere of intolerance to violations of labour discipline . disciplinary sanctions and social influence measures are applied to certain dishonest employees . employees who successfully and conscientiously perform their duties are provided with benefits and privileges in socio-cultural and housing services . for special labour merits, employees are presented to higher authorities for awarding orders, medals, diplomas, badges . employees holding elective positions may be only dismissed by a decision of the body that elected them . disciplinary sanction may be appealed by an employee in the manner prescribed by applicable law (Chapter XV of this Code) an employee has the right to refuse to perform work that poses an apparent danger to the life of the employee . the owner or their authorised body has no right to demand the employee to work in conditions that do not comply with labour protection legislation . the owner or their authorised body shall instruct (train) employees on occupational safety and fire safety . instruction (training) can be conducted remotely, using modern information and communication technologies . commissioning new and reconstructed objects of industrial and socio-cultural purpose without the permission of the central executive authority is prohibited . state intersectoral and sectoral labour protection regulations are rules, standards, regulations, provisions, instructions, and other documents . standards, technical conditions and other regulatory and technical documents for means of labour and technological processes shall include labour protection requirements . the owner or their authorised body shall take measures to facilitate and improve the working conditions of employees . personnel, through the commissioners elected by them, trade unions control compliance with the labour protection regulations by all employees at the enterprises, in establishments, the organisations . the owner or their authorised body develops and implements comprehensive measures for labour protection . employees of hot shops and production sites with carbonated salt water free of charge . employees working in the cold season outdoors or indoors in unheated rooms, loaders and some other categories of employees are provided with special breaks for heating and rest . the owner or their authorised body must investigate and keep records of accidents, occupational diseases, and emergencies at work . persons with disabilities shall not be involved in overtime or night work without their consent . it shall be prohibited to employ women in arduous work and work with harmful conditions . pregnant women and women with children under the age of three shall not work at nighttime, in overtime work, work on weekends and sent on business trips . women with children aged 3 – 14 or children with disabilities shall not be engaged in overtime work or sent on business trips without their consent . pregnant women shall have reduced production rates, service rates or they shall be transferred to easier work . maternity leave and childcare leave shall be granted to women completely, regardless of the number of days actually used before childbirth . childcare leave before the child reaches the age of 3 shall not be granted if the child is in public care . leave may be used in whole or in part by the child's father, grandmother, grandfather, or other relatives who actually take care of the child. leave shall be included in both general and continuous length of service . employees who adopted an orphan or children deprived of parental care shall be granted one-time paid leave with respect to adoption for the period of 56 calendar days (70 calendar days – in case of adopting two and more children) employees who have adopted a child (or two or more children at the same time) shall be given a childcare leave on the conditions and in the manner established by Articles 179 and 181 of this Code . breastfeeding breaks shall be included in working hours and paid at the average salary . enterprises and organisations with extensive use of women's work shall be provided with nurseries, kindergartens, breastfeeding rooms and also rooms for personal care for women . minors under the age of 18 shall have the same labour rights as adults . with the consent of one of the parents, persons over 15 may be employed . arduous work and work with harmful or dangerous working conditions, as well as underground work, shall be prohibited . employees under the age of 18 shall not be engaged in nighttime work, overtime work and work on weekends . remuneration of students of general secondary schools, vocational schools and special secondary schools working in their free time shall be proportionate to the time of such work or based on performance standards . enterprises may provide additional payments to the salaries of students . full annual leaves for employees under the age of 18 in the first year of employment shall be provided upon their request pending the six-month period of employment with the given enterprise or organisation . quota in accordance with law of Ukraine "on employment of population" shall be established for the employment of young people who have completed or terminated their studies . employees under the age of 18 at the initiative of the owner or his/her authorised body may be dismisses, except for compliance with the general procedure of dismissal . parents, foster parents and guardians of a minor may demand the termination of the employment contract with the minor, including a fixed-term contract . Article 200. Involvement of youth organisations in matters relevant to youth employment and leisure employee who has successfully completed industrial training shall be assigned a qualification in accordance with the rates and qualifications handbook . employees specified in part 1 of this Article shall be paid 50 per cent of the average salary at the main place of work, but not less than the minimum wage . employees studying in the secondary evening (shift) schools, classes, groups with full-time or part-time forms of education at secondary schools may be provided with one or two days off per week without pay during the academic year . employees who take external exams for the primary or secondary school shall be granted an additional paid leave of 21 and 28 calendar days, respectively . annual leave for employees studying on-the-job in educational institutions shall be added to the time of training sessions, laboratory work, tests and exams . employees who have been admitted to the entrance exams at higher education institutions shall be granted unpaid leave of 15 calendar days . employees, who study on-the-job in preparatory departments at higher educational institutions, shall be provided with one day off per week without pay . employees admitted to the entrance exams to graduate school with or without on-the-job studies shall be provided with once time additional paid leave per year . different duration of leave in connection with studies may be prescribed by the law for employees studying at higher education institutions with evening and distance learning . leave provided for in clauses 1 and 2 of part 1 and part 4 of this Article shall be granted during the academic year. employees studying full-time at graduate school, during the fourth year of study shall be provided, at their request, with an additional day off per week without pay . employees studying on-the-job at secondary and vocational schools shall not be involved in overtime work . the procedure for consideration of labour disputes shall be considered by: 1) labour disputes commissions; 2) district, city inter-district courts . labour disputes commissions may be established in workshops and other similar subdivisions . the labour disputes commission is considered a mandatory primary body for the consideration of labour disputes arising at enterprises, institutions, organisations . an employee may apply to the commission within three months from the date when he/she learned or should have learned about the violation of his/her right . labour disputes commission shall consider a labour dispute within ten days from the date of submission of the application . a meeting of the commission shall be considered valid if it is attended by at least two-thirds of the elected members . the employee and the owner or his/her authorised body shall have the right to reasonably challenge any member . copies of the commission's decision shall, within three days, be handed over to the employee, owner, or his/her authorised body . the certificate shall indicate the name of the body that delivered the decision on the labour dispute, the date of adoption and issuance and the number of the decision . in case of failure to implement (execute) the decision of the labour disputes commission, the certificate having force of the executive letter shall be issued . the state executor or private executor shall enforce the decision of the labour disputes commission compulsorily . an employee or owner or his/her authorised body may apply to the courts . the courts shall directly consider labour disputes on applications from employees . disputes between employees specified in part 3 of Article 221 and Article 222 of this Code . employee may apply for the resolution of the labour dispute to the court within three months from the date when he8/she learned or should have learned about the violation of his8/her right . in case of violation of the legislation on the remuneration of labour, the employee shall have the right to apply to court for the recovery of the salary due to him/her . the term established by part 3 of this Article shall also apply when addressing to the court of the higher body . Article 235. Renewal at Work, Change in the wording of the reasons for dismissal . in case of dismissal without legal grounds or illegal transfer to another job, the employee shall be reinstated . if there are grounds for reinstatement of an employee who was dismissed in connection with a report made by such employee or a person close to the employee . the body considering the labour dispute shall decide on the payment of monetary compensation . in the event of a delay in the issuance of an employment record book due to the fault of the owner or his/her authorised body, the employee shall be paid the average salary for the entire period of forced absence . court shall impose on an official guilty of unlawful dismissal or transfer of an employee to another job, the obligation to cover the damages caused to the enterprise, institution, organisation . Article 237-1. Compensation for moral damage to the employee by the owner or his/her authorised body shall be made . if an employee is dismissed without legal grounds or in violation of the established procedure, the body considering the labour dispute shall oblige the liquidation commission or the owner to pay the employee wages for the entire period of forced absence . the benefits and compensations provided for in Article 49-3 of this Code shall apply to dismissed employees . citizens of Ukraine have the right on the basis of free will without any prior permission to create trade unions to represent, exercise and protect their labour and social-economic rights and interests . the state shall recognise trade union as authorised representatives of employees and defenders of their labour, social economic rights . primary trade union organisations at enterprises, institutions, organisations shall represent the interests of their members . collective interests of employees of such enterprise, institution, organisation in concluding a collective agreement shall be represented by a joint representative body . the elected body of the primary trade union organisation shall: 1) conclude and monitor the implementation of the collective agreement, report on its implementation at the general meeting of the labour collective . 8) decide on the request to the owner or his/her authorised body to terminate the employment agreement (contract) with the head of the enterprise, institution, organisation . participate in the investigation of accidents, occupational diseases and accidents, in the work of the commission on labour protection . elected bodies of a trade union organisation operating at an enterprise, institution, organisation also have other rights provided by the legislation of Ukraine . members of elected bodies have the right to freely visit and inspect workplaces . they can also demand and receive relevant documents, information and explanations on working conditions . if there are written applications of employees who are members of a trade union, the owner or his/her authorised body shall monthly deduct from the salary and transfer to the account of the trade union . Disputes related to the failure to fulfil such obligations shall be considered in court . Article 250. Allocation of Funds by enterprises, institutions, organisations for purposes of cultural, physical culture and health work . employees of enterprises, institutions, and organisations elected as members to elected trade union bodies shall be guaranteed opportunities to exercise their powers . changes to the terms of the employment contract, remuneration, and disciplinary liability of employees shall be permitted only with the prior consent of the elected body which they belong to . dismissal of employees, elected to the trade union body of the enterprise, institution, organisation shall be prohibited for a period of one year after the expiration of the term for which this composition was elected . members of elected trade union bodies who were not relieved of their production or official duties shall be provided with a day off on the terms stipulated by the collective agreement . employees elected as members to the elected bodies of the trade union organisation shall be granted an additional leave up to 6 calendar days . provisions of this Article regarding the specifics of disciplinary liability and dismissal shall not apply to prosecutors, police officers and employees of the national police . compensation of losses caused to other organisations and the state, payment of fines, penalties and other sanctions established by law, shall be made at the expense of self-supporting income of the personnel . the owner or his/her authorised body shall identify specific units and employees guilty of causing damage to the enterprise . it is not allowed to refuse enrollment of employees sent to the team in the order of employment in accordance with the law . the owner or his/her authorised body of the enterprise, association, structural unit shall be responsible to the team for creating proper conditions for highly productive work . in case of non-fulfilment of production indicators by the team due to the fault of the owner, the brigade shall keep the wage fund calculated at the tariff rates . employees and their family members shall be entitled to a state pension of old age, disability, in connection with the loss of a breadwinner, as well as for years of service in accordance with the law . central executive authorities shall exercise the control and observance of labour legislation . local state administrations and councils within the relevant territory shall ensure the implementation of state policy in the field of labour protection . legal entities and individual entrepreneurs who use hired labour, shall liable in the form of a fine . committing a violation provided for in paragraph 2 of this part, repeatedly within two years from the date of detection of the violation . fines imposed by part 2 of this Article are considered financial sanctions . they do not belong to administrative and economic sanctions defined in Section 27 of the Commercial Code of Ukraine . if a legal entity or an individual entrepreneur using hired labour pays 50 per cent of the fine within 10 banking days from the date of delivery of the resolution, it is deemed executed . fines specified in paragraph 2, part 2 of this Article may be imposed by the central executive authority without state supervision (control) execution of the resolution of the cea implementing the state policy on the supervision and control over the compliance with labour legislation shall be entrusted to the bodies of the state executive service .