the criminal procedure legislation of Ukraine defines the rules of criminal proceedings in the territory of Ukraine . amendments to the Code shall be made exclusively by laws amending this Code and/or the legislation on criminal liability . criminal proceedings shall be aimed at protecting individuals, society and the state from criminal offences . public prosecution means proving prosecution before court . inquiry is a form of pre-trial investigation where criminal misdemeanours are investigated . law of Ukraine on criminal liability means legislative acts of Ukraine that establish criminal liability . criminal proceedings shall mean pre-trial investigation and court proceedings, procedural actions connected with commission of an act specified in the Ukrainian law on criminal liability . minimum wage shall mean sum of money equal to the monthly minimum wage as provided for by law as of 1 January of the calendar year . whistleblower shall mean an individual who, in the presence of the belief that the information is reliable, has filed a report or notification of a corruption criminal offence . a court of the first instance shall mean a local general court that is entitled to pass a sentence or rule on the closure of criminal proceedings . in a case specified in Article 247 of this Code, it shall mean the chairperson or another judge of a respective appellate сourt of appeals . the parties to the criminal proceedings shall mean an investigator, chief officer of pre-trial investigation agency, a public prosecutor . criminal proceedings in the territory of Ukraine shall be conducted based on grounds and under the procedure established by this Code, irrespective of the place where a criminal offence was committed . a victim, his/her representative and legal agent, civil plaintiff and his . representative, civil defendant, representative of the legal entity subject to the proceedings . criminal procedure legislation of Ukraine shall be also applicable in the course of proceedings initiated in respect of criminal offences committed in the territory of a diplomatic mission or consular post of Ukraine abroad . in conducting of individual procedural actions on the request (commission) of the competent authorities of foreign states provisions of this Code shall apply . criminal proceedings shall conform to the fundamentals of criminal proceedings . they include rule of law, legitimacy, equality before law and court, respect for human dignity . the prosecution shall use all possibilities provided for by law to observe the rights of a suspect or accused (in absentia) a court, investigating judge, public prosecutor, investigator, other officials must comply with this Code . any law contradicting this Code shall not be applied in the conduct of criminal proceedings . Article 10. Equality before the law and the court 1. No one may be given privilege or restricted in procedural rights . in the course of criminal proceedings, it shall be prohibited to subject an individual to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment . everyone shall have the right to protect, by all means which are not prohibited by law, their dignity, rights, freedoms, and interests . in the course of criminal proceedings, everyone shall be guaranteed confidentiality of correspondence, telephone conversations, cable, and other forms of communication . inviolability of the right to property shall be made only upon a court decision adopted as prescribed in this Code . no one shall be compelled to admit his/her guilt of a criminal offence . everyone shall have the right to keep silence about suspicion, a charge against him/her . no one may be charged with, or punished twice for a crime for which he/she was acquitted or convicted by a valid judgment . everyone shall be guaranteed the right to a fair trial and resolution of the case . court's judgment or ruling that took legal effect as prescribed by this Code shall be binding and subject to unconditional execution in the entire territory of Ukraine . parties to the criminal proceedings shall have equal rights with regard to collecting and producing items, documents, other evidence . court may admit as evidence testimonies which are not given directly in court . everyone shall be guaranteed the right to challenge procedural decisions, acts or omissions . criminal proceedings such as private prosecution shall be initiated only upon the request of the victim . participants to the criminal proceedings, as well as non-participants, shall not be restricted in the right to obtain both written and oral information in court . the court shall conduct criminal proceedings in camera with full observance of rules set forth hereof . only technical record made by the court in the manner prescribed by this Code shall be the official record of the court hearing . court decision made in open court session shall be pronounced publicly . conducting pre-trial investigation within a reasonable time shall be ensured by public prosecutor and investigating judge . everyone shall have the right for a charge to be subject of a court hearing within the shortest possible time or criminal proceedings concerned closed . criminal proceedings shall be conducted in state language . participants to proceedings who do not know state language have right to testify . only court shall administer justice in criminal proceedings in accordance with rules prescribed by this Code . criminal proceedings in a court of the first instance shall be conducted by a panel of three judges . proceedings in respect of several accused shall be against all accused, provided at least one of them has filed a motion for such consideration . criminal proceedings under cassation procedure shall be deemed quorate provided that more than half of its members are present . a judge or a panel of judges shall be determined for consideration of specific criminal proceedings . criminal proceedings in the high anti-corruption court shall be conducted by the investigating judge alone . proceedings concerning an indictment against a minor, motions for release from criminal liability, application of coercive measures . a judge authorised to conduct criminal proceedings against minors shall preside at the court hearing . criminal proceedings shall be conducted by the court within whose territorial jurisdiction the criminal offence has been committed . if a criminal offence has been committed within the territorial jurisdiction of the local anti-corruption office of Ukraine, the criminal proceeding shall be conducted by a court territorially closest to the court . criminal proceedings in the first instance shall be carried out by local general courts, and also by the High Anti-Corruption Court . a criminal proceeding may be referred to another court if it is impossible to form a new composition of the court for judicial proceedings . the accused or the victim is holding or held an office in the court under whose jurisdiction the conduct of the criminal proceeding falls . in exceptional cases, prior to the commencement of court proceedings, a crime may be transferred to a court at the place of residence of the accused, majority of victims or witnesses . referring a criminal proceeding from one court to another within jurisdictions of different courts of appeals shall be considered by a panel of judges of the Criminal Court of Cassation of the Supreme Court . participants to the judicial proceedings shall be notified of the time and place of consideration of such request . an automated workflow system shall function in court to ensure unprejudiced and impartial distribution of the files of criminal proceedings between judges . files of criminal proceedings, complaints, applications, motions and other procedural documents stipulated in the law shall be subject to compulsory registration in the court’s automated workflow system . the name of a person in respect of whom the documents are submitted, and their essence . data on the judge who conducted the proceedings, and information on the flow of court documents shall also be entered into the system, according to the law . public prosecutor shall be independent in his procedural activities . he shall have the right to start pre-trial investigation provided grounds specified in this Code are present . the court's automated workflow system shall be specified by the Provision on the Court's Automated Workflow System . a pre-trial investigation agency may refer to the court an indictment, request to enforce compulsory medical or reformatory measures, or request to discharge a person from criminal liability . a prosecutor may refer a case to a higher level prosecutor, alter the prosecution or lay additional prosecution under procedure established by this Code . an investigator may also enter civil action for the government and those individuals who are unable to defend their rights . participation of a public prosecutor in court shall be mandatory, except as provided otherwise by this Code . the right to file an appellate or cassation complaint shall be also vested in officials of the higher level of public prosecution: the Prosecutor General, his first deputy and deputies . it is prohibited to assign the conduct of pre-trial investigation of any criminal offence to another agency . revocation of illegal and unfounded decisions of investigators and lower-level public prosecutors shall be effected by the Prosecutor General . another public prosecutor may perform duties of a prosecutor in same criminal proceeding exclusively in the cases stipulated by part 4 and 5 of Article 36, part 3 of Article 313, part 2 of Article 341 hereof . powers of prosecutor shall be vested in another prosecutor by the chief officer of a respective prosecutor’s office . pre-trial investigation shall be conducted by investigative units of national police agencies, security agencies, bodies of the state bureau of investigations . investigators independently or by an investigative team shall be responsible for the conduct of the investigation . investigator shall be liable for legality and timeliness of the conduct of procedural actions . investigator shall have the right to: 1) start pre-trial investigation provided grounds specified in this Code are present; 2) carry out investigatory (search) actions and covert investigatory actions specified by this Code . appoint a chief officer of the inquiry agency to organise the inquiry . investigator shall be liable for the legality and timeliness of the inquiry . inquiring officer shall have the right to: 1) start inquiry provided grounds specified in this Code are present; 2) assign the conduct of investigatory (search) actions to the respective operation units; 3) notify a person of a suspicion . inquiring officer shall inspect the crime scene, search the detainee, interrogate persons, seize weapons and means of committing an offence, things and documents . operation units stipulated by this Code shall carry out investigatory (search) actions and covert investigatory actions . he shall make procedural decisions in cases specified by this code including in respect of termination of a criminal proceeding where grounds specified in Article 284 are present . operationtional units of the national police, security agencies, the national anti-corruption bureau of Ukraine shall conduct investigatory (search) actions in criminal proceedings . an officer of the criminal intelligence unit shall exercise the investigator's powers . a suspect shall mean a person who has been notified of suspicion as prescribed by Articles 276–279 hereof . the suspect or accused shall have the right to know of which criminal offence he/she has been suspected or accused . the right to have a defence counsel and consultation with him prior to the first and each subsequent interview . investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge, court shall have right to prohibit using technical means in the course of a specific procedural action . right to refuse from services of counsel at any time in course of criminal proceedings . the suspect, accused shall also enjoy other procedural rights specified in this Code . he/she is entitled to participate in the examination of witnesses for the prosecution or request them to be examined . the accused shall be entitled to obtain copies of procedural documents and written notices . the suspect or accused who is a foreign national kept in custody shall have the right to meet a representative of the diplomatic or consular mission of his/her state . the acquitted, convicted shall enjoy the rights of an accused set forth in Article 42 hereof . parents (adoptive parents) may be committed as legal representatives, and in their absence, custodians or caregivers . defence counsel shall mean a lawyer who provides defence of the suspect, accused, convicted or acquitted . failure of defence counsel to appear and take part in a procedural action shall not be a ground for finding such action illegal . in court proceedings, there shall be not more than five defence counsels appearing for the same defendant. defence counsel shall enjoy all procedural rights of the suspect or accused whom he/she defends . he shall have the right to participate in interviews and other proceedings . documents related to his/her performing duties may not be inspected, seized, or disclosed by the investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or court without defence counsel's consent . defence counsel can be engaged by investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or court . the suspect or accused, their legal representatives, and others may commit a defence counsel . participation of a defense counsel in criminal proceedings is mandatory in certain cases . defence counsel’s authority to participate in criminal proceedings shall be confirmed by: 1) the certificate of the right to engage in legal practice; 2) an order, agreement with defence counsel or a power of attorney issued by a body (institution) authorised by the law to provide free legal aid . participation of a defence counsel shall be ensured from the time when a person achieves the status of suspect . defence counsel may be committed in urgent procedural actions . the arrival of the defence counsel chosen by the suspect or accused is not possible within twenty-four hours . investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or court shall engage a defence counsel . defence counsel shall have the same rights and duties as the defence counsel throughout criminal proceedings . a victim in criminal proceedings may be an individual who has sustained moral, physical or material damage as a result of a criminal offence . a victim has the right to be notified of his/her rights and obligations under this Law . he/she may where necessary be brought into proceedings as a witness . provisions of this part shall not apply to criminal proceedings in the form of private accusation . victim shall have the right to: 1) have his/her report that a criminal offence has been committed against him/her accepted and registered promptly; 2) obtain from the authorised body where he has lodged the report, a document confirming the filing and registering of the application; 3) obtain copies of procedural documents and receive written notifications in cases specified by this Code . investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge and court may prohibit using technical means in the course of a specific procedural action . victim has the right to participate in investigatory (search) and other procedural actions . at all stages of criminal proceedings, the victim shall reconcile with the suspect or accused and enter into a conciliation agreement . the victim may be represented by a representative: a person who is entitled to be a defence counsel in criminal proceedings . legal entity which is the victim may be represented by its director, other person authorised by law or founding documents, an employee of the legal entity by power of attorney . victim's representative enjoys procedural rights of legal entity he/she represents . an applicant shall have the right to receive information on the status of the pre-trial investigation initiated upon his/her report or notification . civil plaintiff means an individual to whom a criminal offence has caused property and/or moral damage . civil plaintiff shall have the rights and duties of a victim, to the extent that they relate to a civil action . a representative of civil plaintiff or civil defendant in criminal proceedings shall be: a person who represents the plaintiff or defendant in the criminal proceedings . civil plaintiff’s or civil defendant’s representative shall enjoy the procedural rights of a civil plaintiff and civil defendant whose interests he/she represents . a representative of the legal entity in whose respect proceedings are conducted shall be: a person who is entitled to act as a defence counsel in criminal proceedings; director or other person authorised by law or constituent documents . a representative of a legal entity has the right to know in relation to which criminal violation proceedings are conducted against it . investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge and court may prohibit using technical means in a particular procedural action or at a stage of criminal proceedings . in the course of pre-trial investigation, the representative of the legal entity may ask questions, submit his/her comments and objections . a representative of a legal entity shall have the right to participate in court proceedings . a third party, whose property is being seized, shall have rights and duties provided for by this Code for the suspect or accused, to the extent relating to the seizure of property . a representative of a third party, whose property is being seized, may participate in criminal proceedings . witness shall be an individual who knows or may know circumstances to be proved in the course of criminal proceedings and is summoned to give evidence . the following persons may not be interrogated as witnesses: 1) a defence counsel, a representation of the victim, civil plaintiff, civil defendant – with regard to circumstances which they became aware of . a witness shall have the right to: 1) know why and in which criminal proceeding he/she is interrogated; 2) know whether the interrogation is confidential or not; 3) be informed of the date and time of interrogations; 4) be informed in writing of the reasons for interrogating him/her; 5) be informed about the nature of the evidence; 6) be informed as to the manner in which the information is to be disclosed; 7) be informed by the person who entrusted them with the a witness shall be held liable for knowingly false testimony provided to investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or court . he/she shall not disclose any details directly related to the essence of the criminal proceeding and procedural actions that are or were conducted during such proceedings . witness shall be held liable under law if he/she fails to appear before an investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or court . interpreter/translator shall have the right to ask questions with a view to provide an accurate interpretation/translation . an expert in criminal proceedings is an individual who has scientific, technical or any other special expertise . an expert shall have the right to read records of the criminal proceeding . an expert may waive providing an opinion, whenever materials submitted are insufficient . the expert shall not disclose information which became available in connection with fulfilling his/her duties . specialist in criminal proceedings shall be a person with special knowledge and skills . he/she may be committed by parties during pre-trial investigation and by court during judicial proceedings . specialist may ask questions to the participants to the procedural action with permission of the party to the criminal proceeding . a specialist shall appear when summoned before the investigator, inquiring officer, public prosecutor or court . an officer of a probation agency shall be an official of such an agency, assigned to draw up and submit a pre-trial report . the specialist shall not disclose any details directly related to the essence of the criminal proceeding . presiding judge may engage a court administrator to participate in the criminal proceeding . court administrator shall ensure appropriate conditions in the courtroom . judge or juror may not participate in a criminal proceeding for any reason . an investigating judge, judge or juror shall not participate in a criminal proceeding . a judge who participated in the criminal proceedings during the pre-trial investigation shall not have the right to participate in the same proceedings in the court of first, appellate and cassation instances . a judge who participated in the criminal proceeding in the court of first instance shall not participate in this proceeding in appellate and cassation courts . a public prosecutor, investigator or inquiring officer may not participate if he is an applicant, victim, civil plaintiff, civil defendant, close relative or family member of a party . a specialist, probation agency officer, interpreter/translator, expert or court clerk may not participate in criminal proceedings . they may be challenged upon grounds specified in part 1 of Article 77 hereof . challenge pleas may be filed both during pre-trial investigation and judicial proceedings. a challenge plea considered by a panel of judges shall be decided by simple majority . where a repeat challenge shows elements of abuse of the right to challenge in view of delaying the criminal proceeding, the court which considers the case shall have no right to take no action on such challenge plea . the court shall advise a suspect, accused, victim, civil plaintiff and civil defendant of their right to commit another defence counsel or representative . if the suspect or accused in criminal proceedings does not commit another defense counsel within these time limits, the investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or court shall appoint a defence counsel on their own . court shall recognise significant violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms . Article 88. Inadmissibility of evidence and information related to suspect or accused . evidence relating to previous convictions of the suspect or accuse or his/her committing other offences which are not being the subject-matter of the criminal proceeding concerned . a certain habit or standard business practices of a suspect or accused shall be admissible . evidence obtained from the defendant in the claim proceedings in the cases of unfounded assets and their recovery in state revenue shall not be used to prove the guilt of the suspect of committing criminal offences . decision made by a national court or an international tribunal which holds that a violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms has been committed shall have prejudicial significance . the burden of proving circumstances referred to in Article 91 of this Code shall rest with an investigator, public prosecutor and, in cases specified by this Code, on the victim . collection of evidence shall be conducted by the parties to the criminal proceedings, a victim and representative of a legal entity . prosecution shall collect evidence by way of conducting investigatory (search) actions . defence, victim, and representative of legal entity in whose respect proceedings are taken shall conduct collection of evidence . evidence may be obtained in the territory of a foreign state within the framework of international co-operation in the course of criminal proceedings . a witness shall give testimony to an investigator, prosecutor, investigating judge and court . an individual shall give evidence only in respect of circumstances perceived personally . a party may produce testimonies, documents as confirmation of witness’s reputation . hearsay testimony shall be a statement made orally, in writing or in any other form . court may admit hearsay evidence where the suspect or accused has created or facilitated the creation of circumstances under which the person concerned may not be examined . hearsay testimony may not be recognised as admissible evidence . physical evidence shall mean tangible objects used as a tool for committing criminal offence . documents shall mean physical evidence if they contain elements specified in part 1 of this Article . court may find other information admissible where original document concerned has been lost or destroyed . physical evidence transferred to or seized by a party to criminal proceedings shall be returned to its owner as soon as possible . prosecution shall preserve physical evidence according to the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . a document shall be kept throughout the criminal proceedings . if the party to criminal proceedings loses or destroys any physical evidence released thereto, such party shall provide a similar object or compensate its cost to the owner . physical evidence such as perishable goods or products shall be recorded by photography or videotaping and described in detail . physical evidence with value exceeding 200 subsistence minimum levels for employable persons shall be transferred to the National Agency of Ukraine for Detection, Search and Management of Assets Obtained from corruption and other crimes . investigator with consent of a public prosecutor shall file corresponding motion with an investigating judge of local court within whose jurisdiction the pre-trial investigation is conducted . the issue of asset forfeiture and disposal of physical evidence and documents shall be resolved by a court ruling . money, valuables, and other property that was used as a means or tool of criminal offence shall be confiscated . property devoid of any value and unusable shall be destroyed . property of a convicted person for committing a corruption offence, legalisation (laundering) of proceeds from crime, his/her related person shall be confiscated . the court recognises the absence of legal grounds for acquiring rights to a part of the property . when deciding on asset forfeiture, the first issue shall be returning money, valuables and other property to the owner (lawful holder) each party to criminal proceedings shall have the right to produce to court an expert opinion which is based on expert’s scientific, technical, or other special knowledge . experts may not state in their findings whether the accused had the mental state which constitutes an element of criminal offence . expert opinion shall not be binding for a person or body conducting proceedings . expert opinion shall necessarily state that he/she was warned about liability for knowingly misleading opinion and for refusal to fulfil his/her expert duties without valid reasons . in the course of pre-trial investigation, procedural action may be recorded with technical means . not recorded actions and circumstances of the search shall not be entered into a search report and used as evidence . a person who conducted procedural action shall attach annexes to the record . the fact of refusal to sign the record and of reasons for refusal shall be mentioned therein . a record shall be drawn up at the stage of pre-trial investigation, during the conduct of the procedurel action or immediately thereafter . investigatory (search) action shall also include proper packaging of items and documents . the right to unimpeded video recording of the search shall be granted to the defence . a court session journal shall be maintained to contain the name and composition of the court . court session journal shall be maintained and signed by a court clerk . register of pre-trial proceedings records shall be compiled by investigator or public prosecutor and forwarded to the court together with the indictment . investigator or prosecutor’s decisions shall be adopted as rulings . the ruling of an investigator, inquiring officer or prosecutor shall be issued on an official letterhead . notification in criminal proceedings shall be made where participation of such persons is not mandatory . notice shall contain: last name and position of investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge, appellation of court that makes notification . procedural period means the time limits established by law or a public prosecutor, investigating judge or court pursuant to that law . any procedural action or the totality of actions in the course of criminal proceedings shall be conducted without any unjustified delay . court cases in respect of disputes arising from the fact of occupation shall fall under a separate category of cases . where a period is calculated in hours, it shall end in the corresponding minute of the last hour . where the deadline of a procedural period falls on the last day of this month, the period shall end on the first day of the following month . a procedure missed for a valid reason shall be renewed upon a motion of an individual concerned . a ruling of an investigating judge or court on the renewal or refusal to renew procedural period may be challenged as prescribed by this Code . procedural expenses include: expenses for legal aid; expenses related to the travel to the place where pre-trial investigation or court proceeding is conducted . a court may reduce the amount of procedurel expenses to be paid by its ruling or exempt from its payment in full or in part . aid provided by defence counsel engaged through an appointment shall be rendered at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine and free of charge to a suspect and accused . the maximum amount of compensation of expenses for legal aid shall be established by law . expenses related to travel to the place of pre-trial investigation or court proceedings shall be expenses of the suspect or accused in whose respect the restrictive measure was not imposed . victims, civil plaintiffs and witnesses shall be reimbursed for their travel, renting housing, and per diem . experts, specialists and interpreters shall be paid a remuneration for the job done . maximum amount for expenses related to storage and forwarding of items and documents shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . in the event of conviction, the court shall award in favour of the state the expenses on engaging an expert which are supported with documents . parties to criminal proceedings, witnesses, experts, specialists, interpreters shall have the right to appeal against court decision in respect of procedural expenses . civil action on behalf of the state shall be filed by a public prosecutor . a civil action in criminal proceedings shall be considered by the court . where no criminal event is found the court shall dismiss the action . damage caused by illegal decisions, acts or omission shall be reimbursed by the state . a whistleblower shall be paid remuneration in the form of 10 per cent of the monetary amount of the subject of the corruption crime or of the damage caused to the state after the conviction of the court . a person shall have the right to receive remuneration if he/she reported a corruption crime . the whistleblower shall have a right to represent his/her interests during the consideration of the issue of payment . measures to ensure criminal proceedings shall be as follows: summons by investigator, public prosecutor, court summons and compulsory attendance . measures to ensure criminal proceedings shall be applied based on the ruling of the investigating judge or court unless provided otherwise by this Code . investigator or public prosecutor shall have the right to summon a suspect, witness, victim or other participant to criminal proceedings . investigator or public prosecutor during pre-trial investigation shall have the right to summon a person . court shall summon the participants to criminal proceedings whose participation in court proceedings is mandatory . a ruling on court summons of an underage person shall be served on his/her parent, adoptive parent, or legal representative. court summons of an individual living abroad shall be served in accordance with international treaty of legal aid, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . a person shall receive the summons or be notified of it by other means not later than three days before the day when he/she shall arrive on summons . valid reasons for non-compliance with court summons shall be as follows: apprehension, custody, or service of punishment . force-majeure circumstances (epidemics, military hostilities, natural or any other similar disasters) if a suspect, accused, witness, victim, representative of a legal entity in whose respect proceedings are taken, did not appear without valid reason, he/she shall be subject to imposition of pecuniary penalty . failure to comply with summons of an investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or court (failure to appear on summons without valid reason for more than two times) by a suspect or accused who are announced in interstate or international wanted list shall serve as the grounds for conducting special pre-trial investigation or special judicial proceedings . investigator’s or public prosecutor’s motion on enforcement of compulsory attendance shall be considered by investigating judge alone on the day it reached the court . if a person prescribed to appear on summons was actually summoned according to the procedure established by this Code, and did not appear without valid reasons, or did not notify of reasons for failure to appear, shall adopt a ruling for compulsory attendance . a person subject to compulsory attendance fails to comply with the lawful requirements in respect of enforcement of the ruling on compulsory attendance . he/she may be subject to measures of physical coercion capable of ensuring his/her escorting to the place indicated in the summons . it shall be prohibited to apply measures capable of harming the person’s health, as well as to compel the person to remain in the conditions of restrained freedom of movement longer than it is required . a motion for imposition of pecuniary penalty on a person shall be examined by the investigating judge no later than three days after the date of submission of the motion to the court . in the course of judicial proceedings, the issue of imposition on the person must be considered immediately after its initiation . the person who was absent during consideration of this issue by the investigation judge or the court shall have the right to revocation of the ruling . the investigating judge or the court may revoke the ruling on imposition of pecuniary penalty . a person who has filed this motion, as well as the investigator or public prosecutor, shall be notified of the place and time of consideration of the motion . documents confirming special right may be temporarily seized from the person lawfully apprehended by them . a person who has conducted lawful apprehension shall hand over to the authorised official the temporarily seized documents confirming special right . investigator, public prosecutor, and other authorised officials shall draw up an appropriate record as prescribed by this Code . in the event of temporary seizure of documents granting a special right, public procuror or investigator shall lodge appropriate motion . a motion for temporary restriction of the special right may be considered only in the presence of the suspect and his/her defence counsel . investigator or public prosecutor must prove that probability that such a measure is necessary to stop criminal offence or prevent the commission of another offence . public prosecutor has the right to file a motion seeking extension of the term of temporary restriction of the special right . the dismissal of Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine shall be conducted by an investigating judge on the basis of a reasoned motion of the Prosecutor General . public prosecutor has the right to apply for suspension of a person from office . chairperson of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and his/her Deputy, the Prosecutor General or the Deputy Prosecution's Office shall have the right . the motion shall state: 1) brief description of circumstances of the criminal offence . decision on temporary suspension of the judge from the administration of justice shall be adopted by the high council of justice . the Prosecutor General or his/her deputy shall have the right to file the motion to extend the temporary suspension . a judge brought to criminal liability shall be considered by the investigating judge or court . the investigating judge or the court shall dismiss the motion for suspension from office if there are no reasonable grounds to believe that this measure is necessary . the public prosecutor and as for Head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, his/her Deputy – the Prosecutor General or the Specialised anti-corruption prosecutor's office shall have the right to request an extension of the term of suspension . a copy of the ruling shall be sent to the person who has filed the corresponding motion, the suspect suspension from office may be revoked by the decision of the investigating judge . provisional access consists in providing a party in criminal proceedings with the opportunity to examine such items and documents, make copies thereof and seize them . the parties to the criminal proceedings may apply to investigating judge during pre-trial investigation or to court during judicial proceedings . items and documents to which access is prohibited include correspondence between defence counsel and his/her client . items which are attached to such correspondence or any other form of communication . secret protected by law and contained in objects and documents include information in possession of a mass medium or a journalist . information which may constitute physician-patient privilege; secrecy of notary’s activity . a ruling on the provisional access to items and documents shall be issued according to the procedure laid down by law . access to information that is a state secret, shall not be granted to a person who has no security clearance as required by law. ruling on provisional access to privileged items and documents shall include last name, first name, and patronymic of the person who is granted provisional . the term of validity of the ruling which may not exceed two months from the date of ruling . a person producing a ruling on temporary access to items and originals or copies of documents shall leave to the owner a list of items seized . provisional seizure of property means actual deprivation of the suspect or persons in possession of the property specified in part 2 of this Article . property in the form of items, documents, money, etc. may be provisionally seized where there are sufficient grounds to believe that such property: . was intended (used) to induce a person to commit a criminal offence, to finance and/or provide material support for a crime or to be rewarded for its commission . property may also be provisionally seized during search or examination . seizure of electronic information systems or their parts, mobile terminals of communication systems shall be prohibited . investigator, public prosecutor or other authorised official shall draw up a report . a copy of the court decision on refusal or partial satisfaction of the motion for attachment of temporarily seized property shall be handed over to the investigator or public prosecutor . attachment of property shall aim to prevent the possibility of its concealment, damage, deterioration, destruction, transformation or alienation . attachment shall be allowed in order to ensure: 1) preservation of physical evidence; 2) protection of the public interest; 3) protection of national security . attachment may also be imposed on property that has previously been seized . it is prohibited to attach funds in a single account opened in the manner prescribed by Article 35-1 of the Tax Code of Ukraine . attachment shall be impose on the property of a third party where it acquired it free of charge or at a price higher or lower than the market value . attachment may be imposed on property of suspect, accused, convict or legal entity . court at the request of the prosecutor or civil plaintiff may decide to attach property . value of the property to be attached shall be commensurate with the amount of damage caused by the criminal offence . provisional attachment of property or funds on the accounts of individuals or legal entities in financial institutions may be imposed . a public prosecutor shall apply to the investigating judge with a request to attach the property . property shall not be attached where it is owned by a bona fide purchaser, except for the seizure of property to ensure the preservation of physical evidence . a motion for attachment of property of a suspect, accused, convict or third party shall specify the amount of damage caused by a criminal offence . investigator, public prosecutor shall submit motion for the attachment of provisionally seized property not later than the next working day . motion shall be considered by the investigating judge or court no later than two days after it has been lodged . failure to appear by these persons at the court session shall not preclude consideration of the motion . a motion of investigator, public prosecutor or civil plaintiff for the attachment of property which has not been provisionally seized may be considered without notifying the suspect, accused, other holder of property, their defence counsel or legal representative . the investigating judge or court shall refuse to grant a request for seizure of property if the person who has filed it does not prove the need for such seizu . it shall not be allowed to seize the property/funds of a bank classified as insolvent . a motion for the attachment of property shall entail the return of all or a part of temporarily seized property, respectively, to the person concerned . the investigating judge or court shall use the least onerous method of attaching property . such a method will not result in suspension or excessive restriction of lawful business activities . a copy of the ruling shall be handed to the investigator or public prosecutor . a suspect, accused, convict or a third party shall have the right to defence . property or money of a client of an insolvent bank may be transferred . property attachment may also be revoked fully or in part by an investigating judge’s ruling in the course of pre-trial investigation or by court during judicial proceedings . a suspect, accused, their defence counsel, legal representative, other owner or holder of property or representative of the legal entity in whose respect proceedings are taken may file a motion . the public prosecutor while revoking property attachment shall adopt a ruling on terminating the criminal proceedings and revocation of property . measures of restraint shall be as follows: 1) personal commitment; 2) personal warranty; 3) bail; 4) house arrest; 5) custody . investigator, public prosecutor must prove that circumstances established in the course of considering the motion on enforcement of measures . most strict measure shall be taking into custody; least strict measure personal commitment . the investigator or public prosecutor shall not have the right to initiate application of a measure of restraint without grounds provided for by this Code . a judge shall assess the totality of circumstances, including age and state of health of the suspect or accused; . the risk of continuation or repetition of illegal behaviour . personal commitment shall consist in submission on the suspect or accused of an obligation to perform duties imposed on him/her . number of warrantors shall be determined by the investigating judge or court which chooses the measure of restraint concerned . warrantor shall have the right to waive assumed obligations before the emergence of grounds for his/her liability . house arrest may be applied to a person suspected or accused of committing a crime punishable by imprisonment . officers of the National Police shall have the right to appear at the suspect or accused's home, to demand oral or written explanations on issues related to the fulfilment of his/her duties . in proceedings on a criminal offence punishable . by imprisonment for a term nor exceeding three years, it . shall be punished by two to five minimum subsistence levels of employable persons . bail shall consist in paying in of funds, in the legal tender of Ukraine, to a special account determined according to the procedure approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . bail may be paid both by the suspect or accused himself/herself and by any other individual or legal entity (bail bondsman) bail amount shall be determined by investigating judge or court with due account of circumstances of the criminal offence, of the property and family status of the suspect, accused, other data on the person and risks . bail may be established in the amount exceeding eighty or three thousand times the minimum wage . a suspect or accused person who is not in custody shall be required to deposit the funds into the respective account by no later than five days of determination of bail . bail bondsman may at any time exercise their right to post bail in the amount determined in the ruling on application of a custodial measure of restraint . the bail shall be reverted into the state’s revenue, be credited to the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine . bail paid in by the suspect or accused may be, in full or in part, reverted by court to the execution of sentence in respect of punishment involving property . keeping in custody shall be an exceptional measure of restraint enforced exclusively where public prosecutor proves that none of the less strict measures can prevent risks specified in Article 177 hereof . a person suspected of or charged with an offence the primary punishment for which by law is a fine in the amount exceeding 3,000 times the minimum income . a person with prior record of convictions is suspected of or charged with an offence punishable by imprisonment of up to three years . in addition to the grounds provided for by Article 177 of this Code, the public prosecutor has proven that such person, when at large, was fleeing pre-trial investigation or court proceedings . the investigating judge or court when making a ruling on application of custody as a measure of restraint shall determine an amount of bail . the investigating judge or court has the right to put aside a decision on the amount of bail in criminal proceedings . a motion of an investigator or prosecutor to apply a measure of restraint shall be submitted to the local general court, within the territorial jurisdiction of the pre-trial investigation agency is located . a copy of the motion and records in substantiation of the necessity to enforce the measure of restraint shall be handed over to the suspect or accused . copies of records used by the investigator or public prosecutor to support their arguments for the motion . each individual shall require a separate motion for enforcement . a suspect or accused does not appear upon summons and the investigating judge or court has no information about valid reasons which impede his/her timely appearance . the suspect/accused fails to appear when the motion in respect of choosing the measure of restraint in the form of bail, house arrest or custody was considered . public prosecutor or investigator may file a motion on permission for apprehension with a view to compulsory attendance . investigation judge or court may not refuse considering the application for permission to apprehend the suspect or accused with a view to compulsory attendance . motion shall be considered in camera with participation of a public prosecutor . a ruling shall contain: 1) name of the court, last name and initials of investigating judge or judge . ruling granting permission for apprehension with a view to compulsory attendance shall state first name, last name, patronymic, address and telephone number of public prosecutor or investigator . investigation judge or court may decide on the issue of repeated filing with the court of a motion requesting permission . an individual apprehended based on investigating judge’s, court’s ruling shall be released or brought to the investigating judge, court which issued the ruling . official who apprehended a person based on investigating judge’s, court’s ruling to grant permission for apprehension, shall immediately hand over to the person a copy of the ruling concerned . the suspect or accused shall be immediately released by the authorised official in whose custody he/she is kept . public prosecutor or investigator shall have the right to lodge a motion to enforce a measure of restraint to the individual who was apprehended without ruling granting permission for apprehension . in the event of detention without a ruling on the permission to detain a person on suspicion of committing a criminal offence, the above ruling shall be submitted to the High Anti-Corruption Court . a judge or court may consider a motion for selection of such measure of restraint as putting into custody in absence of a suspect or accused . an investigating judge or a court will decide whether to apply custody or milder measure of restriction . the court shall find out whether evidence produced by the parties to the criminal proceedings does prove circumstances which point to the existence of at least one of the risks . investigation judge or court shall pass ruling denying enforcement of a measure of restraint unless, during consideration of the motion, a public prosecutor proves circumstances referred to in part 1 of this Article . suspect or accused may be imposed with the obligation to appear upon each request before court or in any other government authority . court may apply to a person suspected of committing a crime related to domestic violence, one or more of the following measures of restraint . duties provided for by parts 5 and 6 of this Article, may be imposed on a suspect or accused for a period not exceeding two months . if the person is suspected of or charged with an offence with a primary punishment being a fine equals or exceeds 3,000 tax-free minimum incomes, the only applicable measure shall be bail or custody . application of electronic control means consists in fastening on the body of the suspect or accused of a device that allows monitoring and recording his/her whereabouts . device shall be secured against unauthorised removal, damaging or other interference in its functioning with the purpose of eluding control . a ruling to apply a non-custodial measure shall indicate specific duties imposed on a suspect or accused person and, where so provided for by this Code, the time for which they are imposed . Term of validity of the investigating judge’s, court’s ruling to commit to custody or to extend custody shall not exceed sixty days . time of custody shall include the time spent by the person concerned in a healthcare facility while undergoing in-patient psychiatric examination . a public prosecutor or investigator may apply to the investigating judge or court for changing a measure of restraint, including for revocation, alteration or imposition of additional duties, or for modifying the manner in which they perform their duties . a motion to extend detention shall be submitted to the local court within the territorial jurisdiction of which the pre-trial investigation is conducted . in criminal proceedings concerning criminal offences within the jurisdiction of the high anti-corruption court . a suspect or accused is entitled to file a motion to change the measure of restraint . a copy of the motion and records on which in substantiation shall be provided to the public prosecutor . the motion shall be attached with copies of records used to support the arguments for the motion . the suspect or accused shall be released after paying in bail set by investigating judge or court in the ruling on enforcement of the measure of restraint in the form of keeping in custody . if a person is released under a personal commitment measure, he/she is immediately brought to his/her place of residence and released . the competent official in whose custody the suspect or accused is kept, shall immediately order his/her release and inform of this investigator, public prosecutor and investigating judge . from the moment of release from custody in connection with payment of bail, the suspect shall be deemed the one in respect measure of restraint is enforced in the form of bail . each investigating judge of the court whose territorial jurisdiction extends to a person committed to custody shall have the right to issue a ruling by which to order any government authority or official to ensure respect for such person’s right . an investigating judge shall release the person deprived of liberty from custody unless the government authority that keeps such person in custody presents a valid court’s decision . nobody may be apprehended without investigating judge’s or court’s ruling except as prescribed by this Code . a special procedure for apprehension involving specially designated categories of persons shall be established by Chapter 37 of this Code.  2. Apprehension by a competent official 1. A competent official shall have the right to apprehend an individual suspected of the commission of crime for which a punishment of imprisonment is stipulated . a special procedure for apprehension involving specially designated categories of persons shall be established by Chapter 37 of this Code . an authorised official shall have the right, without a warrant of the investigating judge or court, to apprehend a person suspected of a crime . a competent official who apprehended the person shall be required to immediately inform him/her of the grounds for the aproach . a person detained in connection with his/her search by a foreign authority for criminal prosecution or execution of a sentence shall be explained right to consent to surrender (extradition) on apprehension a report shall be drawn up in which, in addition to information specified in Article 104 of this Code, the following shall be indicated: place, date and exact time (hours and minutes) of detention . an individual shall be deemed to be apprehended where he/she, with the use of period of apprehension without a ruling of investigating judge or court shall not exceed seventy two hours . investigator shall conduct verification to decide on liability of persons guilty thereof . an official responsible for keeping those apprehended shall be designated in the pre-trial investigation agency's station . a competent official who detains a person shall be under the obligation to give the detainee an opportunity to immediately inform of his/her detention . in the event of detention of a state or private executor, an officer who conducted the detention shall notify the Ministry of justice of Ukraine within 24 hours . a competent official responsible for the keeping of detainees shall verify compliance with the requirements of this Article and to carry out the procedures provided herein on his/her own . investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor shall enter the information concerned in the Unified Register of Pre-Trial Investigations, and to initiate investigation . pre-trial investigation shall be initiated immediately if elements of a criminal offence are discovered on a sea or river vessel outside Ukraine . investigator or public prosecutor, other official authorised to accept and register reports, information on criminal offences . information on criminal offence shall be entered in the unified register of pre-trial investigations . the investigator or public prosecutor shall notify the legal entity in writing . proceedings against a legal entity shall be conducted simultaneously with the respective criminal proceedings . investigators of the National Police shall conduct pre-trial investigation of criminal offences . investigations of crimes specified in Articles 328, 329, 422 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine . investigators from units of the State Bureau of Investigations of Ukraine shall conduct inquiry of criminal misdemeanours. the offences may be committed by the President of Ukraine, whose powers have been terminated, the prime minister, a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, First Deputy and Deputy Ministers . a person whose office belongs to a category may also be guilty of a criminal offence . offences can also be committed against the established procedure for military service . detectives of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine shall conduct a pre-trial investigation of criminal offences under Articles 191, 206-2, 209, 210, 211, 354 (in respect of officers of legal entities under public law) if there is at least one of the following conditions: 1) where a criminal offence is committed by: the president, whose powers have been terminated, a member of the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine, the first Deputy and Deputy ministers,  public prosecutors of the prosecutor's offices specified in clauses 1–4, 5–11, part 1 of Article 15 of the Law of Ukraine “On the Prosecutor’s Office”; customs official who has been awarded the special title of state counsellor of the customs service of third class and above . public prosecutor supervising pre-trial investigations conducted by detectives of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine may, by his ruling, attribute criminal proceedings . detectives of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine may also investigate criminal offences that fall under the jurisdiction of investigators of other agencies . if the investigation relates to offences provided for by Articles 354, 364–370 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the investigator of that body shall conduct the pre-trial investigation . pre-trial investigations in respect of several persons suspected of committing one criminal offence, may be joined in one proceedings . investigations of a crime and criminal offences may be conducted according to the rules . a decision whether to join or disjoin the materials of pre trial proceedings may not be challenged . if place of commission of criminal offence is unknown or it has been committed outside Ukraine, respective public prosecutor shall determine place for conduct of pre-trial investigation . if it is established that a person has committed a crime in the absence of a corpus delicti in his/her actions, the investigator shall send the records of the criminal proceedings to the chief officer of the inquiry agency . time limits of pre-trial investigation shall be calculated from the moment of entering information on a criminal offence into the unified register . time limits from the day of notification to the person of suspicion shall be 12 months in criminal proceedings in respect of minor crimes . the total term of the investigation may be extended in accordance with the procedure provided for by paragraph 4, Chapter 24 of this Code . the term from the date of the decision on suspension of criminal proceedings to the day of its cancellation by the investigating judge shall be included in the terms provided for by this Article . the general term of pre-trial investigation in joint criminal proceedings shall be determined by the public prosecutor specified in part four of Article 295 hereof . a motion of defence, victim and his/her representative shall be considered within a period nor exceeding three days after filing . a person viewing the records of pre-trial investigation shall have the right to take necessary notes and copies . investigators and public prosecutor must take appropriate measures to ensure attendance of persons whose lawful interests may be restricted or infringed . conducting investigative (detective) actions in night-time (between 10 pm till 6 am) shall not be permitted . investigator or public prosecutor shall conduct the investigation in full . witnesses of investigative action may be invited for participation in other procedural actions . a victim, relatives of the suspect, accused and victim, officers of law enforcement agencies, as well as persons concerned with the outcome of the criminal proceedings shall not be witnesses of investigative action . any investigative (detective) actions conducted after expiry of the period of pre-trial investigation shall be void and the resulting evidence deemed inadmissible . a person shall have the right not to answer questions with regard to circumstances in which there is a direct prohibition in law . investigator or public prosecutor may interview two or more persons who have already been interviewed . witnesses shall be advised on criminal liability for refusal to give testimony and for giving knowingly false testimony . a party to criminal proceedings shall have the right to file a motion with the investigating judge requesting such witness or victim to be interrogated in court session . an on-site court hearing may be held for the interrogation of a seriously ill witness who has been a victim during a pre-trial investigation . a court may disregard the evidence obtained in a procedure set forth in this Article only upon giving motives of such decision . a child or an underage shall be interrogated in the presence of the legal representative . continued interrogation shall not last more than one hour without breaks, in the whole more than two hours per day . a legal representative, pedagogue, psychologist or medical practitioner should be involved in investigative (detective) actions . investigator or public prosecutor in advance shall find out if the identifying person can identify this individual, ask him/her about outward appearance and characteristic signs of this individual . record shall state by the totality of which signs he can identify the individual concerned . identification of an individual may be conducted under conditions when the individual to be identified does not see nor hear identification person . photo of the individual to be identified shall be presented together with other photos whose number shall not be less than three . individuals shown on other photos shall be of the same sex and should not be strongly different in the age, outward appearance and garments from the individual . an individual may be presented for identification by voice or gait; at that, voice identification shall be conducted out of visual contact between identifying person and individuals . a dead body shall be presented for identification in accordance with the requirements specified by parts 1 and 8 of Article 228 of this Code . biographical details of the identifying person shall not be entered into the record nor enclosed to the records of pre-trial proceedings . identification may be conducted in the mode of video conference involving transmission from other premises . a decision to conduct remote pre-trial investigation shall be made by the investigator or public prosecutor . a person shall be interrogated in compliance with rules set out in Articles 225–227 of this Code . participants to investigative (detective) action concerned shall be ensured the possibility to remotely ask questions . remote pre-trial investigation conducted under the decision of the investigating judge shall be conducted in accordance with provisions of this Article and parts 4 and 5 of Article 336 hereof . investigator or public prosecutor may conduct the interrogation in the video conference mode of a person who is not able to appear on time . investigator or public prosecutor shall draw up a report in which he indicates the date and time of interrogation . nobody is allowed to enter home or any other possession of a person for any purpose whatsoever other than upon voluntary consent of the owner . investigator or public prosecutor shall have the right to enter home or other possession of a person only in urgent circumstances . a search shall be conducted with the purpose of finding and fixing information on circumstances of commission of criminal offence . in criminal proceedings on crimes within the jurisdiction of the high anti-corruption court, the search is to be conducted on the basis of an investigating judge's ruling . a request for search shall be considered in court on the day of its receipt . a search is the most expeditious and effective way to find and seize items and documents, as well as to locate wanted persons . the investigator shall not have the right to re-apply to the investigating judge for permission to search the same house or other property of the person . investigator or public prosecutor may execute the ruling to authorise a search of home or any other property of a person . victim, a suspect, defence counsel, representative, and other participants to the criminal proceedings may be invited to attend . investigator or public prosecutor may prohibit any person from leaving the searched place until the search is completed . if no one is present, the copy of ruling shall be left visible in the home or other possession . search shall be conducted within the scope necessary to attain the objective of the search . seized objects and documents not included in the list of those directly allowed to be found in the ruling authorising the search shall be deemed provisionally seized property . a search of person's home or other property based on a ruling of an investigating judge shall be recorded by means of audio and video recordings . investigator or public prosecutor shall have the right to prohibit any individual from leaving the inspected place till the completion of inspection . a dead body may be inspected concurrently with the inspection of the scene, home, or other property of a person . after forensic medical examination for establishing causes of death, the dead body shall necessarily be sent to exhumation . the dead body shall be taken out from the grave in the presence of forensic medical examiner and inspected in accordance with rules laid down in Article 238 hereof . during exhumation, objects of importance for establishing circumstances of criminal offence can be removed from grave . a record of investigative action conducted is drawn up which shall state everything which was found out, in the same sequence as it was really done . investigation in the home or other property of a person shall be conducted only upon voluntary consent of the holder, or based on an investigating judge ruling . investigator or public prosecutor shall draw up a record of investigative experiment . examination shall be conducted by an expert institution, expert or experts involved by the parties to the criminal proceedings or the investigating judge . it is not allowed to conduct expertise examination for addressing issues related to law . an expert shall be involved where there are grounds for conducting an examination . the motion shall state: 1) brief description of circumstances of the criminal offence . 2) reference to the circumstances substantiating arguments of the motion . 3) reference to an expert or expert institution that shall be assigned the expert examination . covert investigative (detective) actions are actions in which information on the fact and methods of their conduct may not be disclosed, except as prescribed by this Code . investigator, public prosecutor or investigating judge shall take decision on the conducting of such actions . the investigation shall be conducted in accordance with rules prescribed by Article 241 hereof . when samples are needed for expertise examination, such samples shall be taken by the party to criminal proceedings . only public prosecutor shall be vested with the right to take decision to conduct such a covert investigative (detective) action as control over the commission of crime . investigator conducting a pre-trial investigation of a criminal offence or, on his behalf, authorised criminal intelligence units of the National Police, security agencies, the state bureau of investigations . consideration of motions referred to the powers of an investigating judge shall be conducted by the investigating judge of the appellate court within whose territorial jurisdiction the pre-trial investigation agency is located . requests for permission to conduct covert investigative (detective) actions shall be considered with participation of the person who has filed such request . investigator’s or public prosecutor’s request shall be attached with an extract from the unified register of pre-trial investigations pertaining to the criminal proceedings within the framework of which the request is filed . investigating judge shall pass a ruling to allow conducting the requested covert investigative (detective) action . ruling rendered by investigating judge to give no permission to conduct covert investigative (detective) action shall not impede filing a new motion to obtain such permit . time in which the investigating judge’s ruling to allow conducting a covert investigation action may not be valid for more than two months . public prosecutor shall take decision to discontinue conducting of such action where such action is no longer needed. a covert investigative (detective) action may be initiated before investigating judge adopts a ruling in the cases prescribed by this Code . public prosecutor may apply to investigating judge with an appropriate request . investigating judge shall consider this request in accordance with requirements of Article 248 hereof . after the conduct of a covert investigative (detective) action, a record shall be drawn up, with attachments thereto, where necessary . public prosecutor shall take measures to preserve objects and documents which were obtained during conducting covert investigation actions . individuals whose constitutional rights were temporarily restricted, as well as the suspect, his/her defence counsel, shall be informed . defence counsel and other individuals entitled to review such records shall be warned about criminal liability for disclosing information obtained in respect of other persons . information, objects and documents obtained as a result of conduct of covert investigative (detective) actions shall be destroyed immediately based on public prosecutor’s decision . records of covert investigative (detective) actions may be used as evidence . interrogation of persons who conducted covert investigations may be secret . information obtained as a result may be transmitted only through public prosecutor . nobody may be subjected to interference in private communication without ruling . a public prosecutor or investigator shall be required to apply to the investigating judge for permission to interfere in private communication . communication shall be deemed private insofar as information is transmitted and stored under conditions where participants to the communication can expect that their communication is private . interference in private communications includes audio, video monitoring of an individual; arrest, examination and seizure of correspondence . correspondence referred to in this Article shall include letters of all types, postal packets, parcels, postal containers, postal money orders, telegrams, and other material mediums for exchange of information among individuals . seized correspondence shall be inspected in the postal office, which was assigned control and seizure of this correspondence . collecting information from transport telecommunication networks shall mean a variety of interference in private communication conducted without the knowledge of individuals . investigation judge’s ruling shall additionally state identification characteristics which will allow to uniquely identify the subscriber under surveillance . obtaining information from electronic information systems shall not require permission of the investigating judge. contents of information transmitted by persons via the transport telecommunication networks shall be stated in the record of conducting of the said covert investigative (detective) actions . information obtained through the use of technological devices shall be examined, where necessary, with participation of a specialist . investigator shall have the right to covertly penetrate into publicly inaccessible places, home or any other property . publicly inaccessible place shall mean the place which is non-enterable or in which it is impossible to legally stay without consent of the owner, tenant, or persons authorised by him/her . Article 267. Establishing the location of a radio electronic device shall constitute a covert investigative (detective) action . surveillance of an individual, an object or a place may be carried out by means of video recording, photography, special technological devices for surveillance . surveillance of an individual under part 1 of this Article shall be conducted on the basis of a ruling of the investigating judge . the head of the banking institution shall notify all its employees of the obligation not to disclose information about the conduct of this investigative action . surveillance of the place of work shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Article 270 of the Criminal Code . audio or video monitoring of a place may be made during pre-trial investigation . location may be monitored based on ruling of the investigating judge . control over the commission of crime may be conducted where there are reasonable grounds to believe that a grave or special grave offence is prepared or being committed . control over the commission of crime consists in illegal transit via the Ukrainian territory . public prosecutor must state circumstances which show that the individual concerned was not incited to the commission . of a grave crime, information, objects and documents of importance for pre-trial investigation may be obtained . special assignment shall not be conducted for more than six months . bogus (simulation) means employed in the course of a covert investigation (detective) action shall be used in proving in the form of original means or tools . samples necessary for comparative analysis may be covertly obtained only in case their obtainment in accordance with Article 245 of this Code is impossible . the investigator may use information obtained as a result of confidential co-operation with other persons . notaries, medical staff, clergymen, journalists are not allowed to be involved in covert investigations (detective) actions . written notice of suspicion shall be drawn up by the public prosecutor or investigator . it shall contain the following information: last name and position of the investigator or investigator giving the notice; personal details of the person who is notified of suspicion; appellation (number) of criminal proceedings in the framework of which the notice is given . in case a person has not been served the notice within twenty four hours after he/she has been apprehended, such person shall be subject to immediate release . pre-trial investigation may be suspended after a person has been notified about suspicion . investigator shall carry out all investigative (detective) and other procedural actions . no investigation (search) actions shall be allowed except for those aimed at establishing the whereabouts of the suspect . a person has the right to have charges brought against him/her reviewed by a court . after the person has been notified of being a suspect, the public prosecutor shall complete the pre-trial investigation . a search for the suspect may be entrusted to the criminal intelligence units. criminal proceedings shall be closed where: 1) absence of occurrence of the criminal offence has been established; 2) absence of elements of the crime in the act concerned; 3) no sufficient evidence has been obtained to prove the person’s guilt in court; 4) a law took effect by which criminal liability for the action committed by the person concerned, has been abolished; 5) the suspect or accused died, except when proceedings are necessary to vindicate the deceased; 6) the victim, and where provided for by this Code, his/her criminal proceedings shall be closed by the court: 1) in connection with the person’s discharge from criminal liability; 1-1) on the grounds provided for by clause 3-1, part 1 of this Article . proceedings in respect of a legal entity shall be subject to closure in the event that no grounds have been established to apply criminal law measures . the investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor shall adopt a ruling on closing of criminal proceedings . the investigator or inquirer shall make the decision on closing on the grounds provided for by clauses 1, 2, 4, 9, 9-1, part 1 of this Article, if no person has been notified of the suspicion in this criminal proceeding . a copy of the investigator’s decision to close criminal proceedings shall be forwarded to the applicant, victim, and public procuror . closing criminal proceedings or passing a judgment on the grounds specified in clause 1, part 2 of this Article shall be inadmissible where the suspect or accused objects against this . a person shall be relieved from criminal liability where provided for by the Law of Ukraine on criminal liability . the public prosecutor’s motion for the relief from criminal liability shall contain the following information: name and registration number of the criminal proceeding concerned . the court shall inquire about the victim’s opinion regarding the possibility of relieving the suspect from criminal responsibility . in the event of establishing the reasons/grounds stipulated by the Law of Ukraine on criminal liability . if within a year from the date when a collective of a company, institution or organisation took the given person on probation he/she fails to justify this collective’s confidence, evades actions/measures of reformatory nature, and/or disturbs public order, the general meeting of the respective collective may pass a decision to refuse from going bail for this person . the court shall consider the issue of making this person criminally liable for the perpetrated criminal offence in accordance with the procedure prescribed by evidence collected in the course of pre-trial investigation is sufficient for drawing up of an indictment, a motion to enforce compulsory medical or reformatory measures . public prosecutor or investigator as directed by the prosecutor shall grant access to the records he has in his possession . providing access implies the possibility to copy or reproduce them . defence shall have the right to deny the public prosecutor access to any records . a decision as to whether any specific records shall be deemed susceptible of being used to prove the guilt of the accused in commission of a criminal offence . in case of delay in viewing records, investigating judge may set a time limit . parties to criminal proceedings shall disclose one another additional materials obtained before or during court proceedings . indictment shall contain name and registration number of the criminal proceeding concerned . indictment shall be signed by investigator and public prosecutor who has approved it . provision of other documents to the court before commencement of judicial proceedings shall be forbidden . a motion to apply compulsory medical or reformatory measures shall comply with the requirements of Article 291 of this Code, as well as contain information on the proposed compulsory medical measure . the public prosecutor shall forward, against acknowledgement of receipt, their copy and a copy of the register of pre-trial proceedings records to the suspect . time limits of pre-trial investigation of a crime, if it cannot be completed due to complicated nature of proceedings, may be extended to three months, or to six months in view of special complexity of proceedings . a request for extension of the investigation shall be submitted no later than five days before the expiration of the pre-suspect's term . the suspect and his/her defence counsel shall have the right to object to the request . public prosecutor's decision to extend time limits for pre-trial investigation shall be in the form of a ruling . if the request does not prove the existence of the grounds provided for by part 6 of this Article . in the cases provided for by Article 294 of this Code, the extension of the pre-trial investigation shall be conducted on the basis of a decision of the investigating judge, issued at the request of the public prosecutor or investigator . the investigating judge shall consider the request for extension of the pre-trial investigation within three days from the date of its receipt . he/she shall do so with the participation of the investigator or public prosecutor and the suspect and his/her defence counsel . in the event of consideration of the request after notifying the person of the suspicion, the judge shall refuse to grant the request . special pre-trial investigation (in absentia) shall be conducted in respect of one or more suspects . it may be conducted with regard to a suspect, except for minors, who hides from the investigation and judicial bodies with the view of avoiding criminal liability . if several persons are notified of a suspicion in criminal proceedings, the investigator or public prosecutor may request the investigating judge to conduct a special pre-trial investigation . in respect of other suspects, further investigation in the same criminal proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the general rules provided by this Code . if the investigative judge establishes that the motion has been submitted without complying with Article 297-2 of this Code, he/she shall issue the corresponding ruling . the investigative judge shall consider the availability of sufficient evidence to suspect a person of having committed a criminal offence . repeated submission of the motion to conduct special pre-trial investigation in one criminal proceedings shall not be allowed . a copy of the ruling shall be sent to the public prosecutor, investigator and a defence counsel . summons shall be sent to the last known address of residence or staying of the suspect . the suspect shall be deemed to have been properly informed about the summons content . apprehension of a person who has committed a criminal offence by an authorised official . detention of a person who has committed a criminal offence shall be carried out for no more than three hours from the moment of actual apprehension . a competent official who apprehended the person, and the inquiring officer shall immediately inform him/her of the grounds for the apropriation and of the commission of what crime he/she is suspected of . the apprehended person shall be given the opportunity to notify other persons of his/her detention and whereabouts in accordance with the provisions of Article 213 hereof . items and documents that are a tool and/or means of committing a criminal offence or a direct subject of encroachment shall be seized by an authorised official of the National Police, security agency, body of state bureau of investigation . if there are sufficient grounds to believe that the person has committed an offence, the authorised official shall temporarily seize the driver's license until the sentence enters into force . the term of inquiry may be extended by the public prosecutor up to thirty days . apprehension of a person on the grounds and in accordance with the procedure established by this Code shall be used as a provisional measure of restraint . for pre-trial investigation of criminal offences it is allowed to perform all investigative (detective) actions . inquiring officer shall as soon as possible submit to the public prosecutor all the collected records of the inquiry together with the notice of suspicion . the term of detention of a person shall not exceed seventy-two hours . a corresponding record shall be drawn up on the refusal of the specified persons to receive them or delay in receiving, specified persons shall be deemed to have received access to the inquiry report . in the case of an indictment, a request for the application of compulsory measures of medical or reformatory nature, the prosecutor shall deliver copies of inquiry report to the person who has committed the offence . public prosecutor has the right to refer to court an indictment containing inter alia a motion on consideration thereof in simplified procedure . the suspect unconditionally has admitted his/her guilt, does not dispute circumstances established through pre-trial investigation . investigator, inquiring officer or public procuror shall ensure the voluntary consent of the suspect, victim and representative of legal entity in respect of which proceedings are taken .  1. Decisions, acts or omissions of the investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor, which may be challenged during pre-trial proceedings . decisions, acts or omissions of the investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor in enforcing security measures may be challenged . decision to dismiss a motion for conducting investigative (detective) actions, covert investigative actions can be challenged by the person whose motion has been dismissed, his /her representative, legal representative or defence counsel . time limits for challenging decisions, acts or omissions of the investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor, its return or refusal to open proceedings . complaints may be lodged within ten days after the decision was taken . a ruling to return the complaint or refuse opening proceedings may be challenged under appellate procedure . investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor may at their own discretion repeal a decision challenged, discontinue an act or omission specified in clauses 1, 2, 5 and 6 of part 1 of Article 303 hereof . in criminal proceedings concerning criminal offences within the jurisdiction of the high anti-corruption court they shall be considered by an investigating judge of a local court . ruling may be related to: 1) repeal of the decision of the investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor; 1-1) cancellation of the notice of suspicion; 2) order to stop conducting act; 3) refusal to grant challenge . ruling of the investigating judge on the results of consideration of the challenge against the decision, act or omission may not be appealed . the superior public prosecutor shall be required to consider the complaint within three days of its lodging . officials who are at fault for failure to respect reasonable time may be held liable under law .  2. Challenging rulings of the investigating judge passes during pre-trial proceedings . decisions of the investigating judge on refusal to grant the complaint against the decision to close the criminal proceedings may also be appealed . complaints against other investigating judge’s rulings shall be non-appealable . investigator or inquiring officer who investigates a criminal offence shall have a right to challenge any decisions, acts or omissions of the public prosecutor . a complaint against decisions, act or omission of a public prosecutor shall be considered . after consideration, the following decisions may be taken: 1) the decision being challenged is maintained; 2) to change the decision challenged partly; 3) to repeal the decision challenging and a new decision is adopted . a court shall within five days after the day of receipt thereof, assign the date of preparatory court session . court may close proceedings in case of establishing grounds specified in clauses 4–8, 10, part 1 or part 2 of Article 284 hereof . ruling to return the indictment, motion to enforce compulsory medical or reformatory measures may be challenged under appellate procedure . officer of the probation agency shall prepare a pre-trial report upon court ruling . a pre-trial report shall be drawn up in respect of a person accused of committing a minor or grave crime, the lower limit of which shall not exceed five years of imprisonment . a report may not be used in criminal proceedings as evidence of the guilt of the accused . the court shall conduct preparation for court proceedings . court proceedings shall be held and completed within a reasonable period of time . court shall explain to the accused the right to file a motion for consideration of criminal proceedings against him/her by a panel of three judges . documents, other materials forwarded to the court during court proceedings by participants thereto, shall be attached to the indictment . court session in criminal proceedings shall be conducted in one court’s composition . replacement of a judge shall be determined following the procedure established by part 3 of Article 35 hereof . the court may by its reasoned ruling decide that there is no need to re-start the court proceedings . a reserve judge shall be appointed to be staying in the courtroom throughout the judicial proceedings . where in the course of the court session, a judge is replaced by the reserve judge, the court proceedings shall continue . a court session shall continue without breaks, except for time to rest . court proceedings in criminal proceedings as to crimes specified in part 2 of Article -1 of this Code may be held in absentia, without the accused, except for a minor who hides from the investigation and judicial bodies . information about the documents and the summons shall be published in national mass media . court shall postpone trial, fixe date, time and place of a new court session . court shall raise issue of liability of public prosecutor or defence counsel who has failed to appear before the bodies authorised by law to initiate disciplinary proceedings against them . civil action may be considered in absence of a civil plaintiff, his/her representative or legal representative provided that he/she has requested so or that the defendant or civil defendant admitted the action . where a witness, specialist, interpreter or expert does not appear in court session upon summons, the court shall fix new court session . parties to criminal proceedings shall ensure the appearance of the interpreter, witness, specialist or expert . non-appearance at the court hearing of the probation agency officer shall not impede the court proceedings . close relatives and family members of the accused and victim, as well as representatives of mass media shall enjoy the preferential right to be present . the accused breaks order in court session or disobeys instructions of the presiding judge . if the accused repeats his behaviour in the court session, he/she may be moved away . the court shall have the right to change, revoke or impose a measure of restraint . court shall decide on the measure of restraint in accordance with the procedure established by Article 18 of the present Code . court shall dispose the issue of expedience to extend the period of keeping the accused in custody . a copy of the ruling shall be handed over to the accused and the public prosecutor . court has the right to assign the conduct of expert examination to an expert institution, an expert or experts . measures to ensure criminal proceedings shall be applied during the court proceedings . the person who obtained objects and documents as a result of granting interim access thereto shall make them accessible . a court may direct the pre-trial investigation agency to conduct specific investigative (detective) actions . the court shall postpone the trial for a time sufficient for conducting such action and making its result known to the participants to court proceedings . materials of criminal proceedings may be joined in one proceeding or disjoined in separate proceedings by a ruling of the court hearing the proceedings, according to the rules laid down in Article 217 of the present Code. court proceedings may be conducted through video conference with transmission from another premise . court shall rule to conduct remote court proceedings proprio motu or on a motion of a party to criminal proceedings . participants to the criminal proceedings shall be ensured the possibility to hear and observe the course of court proceedings, to put questions and get answers . court administrator or court clerk shall be required to hand over to such person a leaflet on his/her procedural rights and stay near until the end of the court session . court may by its ruling assign the court, within the territorial jurisdiction of which such person is, to conduct the actions specified in part 4 of this Article . the public prosecutor has the right to change charges if the trial ascertained new factual circumstances of the criminal offence of which a person is accused . the court shall explain to the accused that he will be defended by the court according to a new charge in court session . in the event of a change in the gravity of the crime from a grave or special grave crime to the crime provided for by part 2 of Article 314 314-1 of this Code, the court decides to make a pre- if information is obtained that the accused has possibly committed another criminal offence in respect of which charges were not brought . court is required to adjourn the trial for the time needed for the preparation of defence against a new charge . new examination of evidence already examined by the court prior to bringing additional charge is conducted only if the court finds this necessary . if as a result of trial proceedings, public prosecutor comes to the belief that charges brought against the person are not substantiated, he shall be required to drop public prosecution . the victim who has agreed to press charges in court shall have all rights inherent in the prosecution during court proceedings . if the head of the public prosecutor's office refuses to approve the indictment with the changed charge, he shall remove from participation in trial . court administrator shall hand over to participants who take part in trial the instruction on their rights and duties prescribed by this Code . the trial shall begin with the announcement by the prosecutor of a summary of the indictment . the presiding judge shall identify the accused ascertaining his last name, first name, patronymic, place and date of birth, place of residence, occupation and family status . he/she shall explain to the accused the essence of charges and ask him/her whether he wishes to testify . the scope of evidence to be examined and the way in which it shall be examined shall be set in the court’s ruling and, where necessary, can be changed . the court shall have the right, where the participants to court proceedings do not object thereto, to find that examination of evidence in respect of indisputable circumstances is unnecessary . court may direct accused to give short answer "yes" or "no" in court session, the accused shall have a right to use notes . article 352. Examination of witness 1. Before examination of a witness, presiding judge shall establish his/her identity and find out relation to accused and victim . presiding judge shall have the right to dismiss questions which do not relate to the substance of the criminal proceedings . if there is a danger that witness’s voice can be identified, examination may be accompanied by acoustic disturbance . interrogation shall be conducted in compliance with the Law of Ukraine “On Ensuring the Safety of Persons Participating in Criminal Proceedings” witness may be examined repeatedly in the same or next court session . court may order simultaneous examination of two or more already examined participants . examination of a victim shall be conducted in compliance with the rules laid down in parts 2, 3, and 5–14 of Article 352 hereof . court may summon an expert for examination to clarify his/her findings . expert examined upon request of the prosecution shall be first examined by the prosecution . presiding judge shall warn the expert about criminal liability for providing knowingly misleading findings. court may order simultaneous examination of two or more experts to clarify reasons for differences in their findings . exhibits shall be inspected by the court and produced for inspection to the participants to court proceedings . records of investigative (detective) actions and other documents attached to records of criminal proceedings shall be announced in court session . participants to court proceedings have the right to ask the court to exclude a document from evidence . reproduction of audio recording and video replay shall be made in the courtroom . the court shall consider statements about forgery of audio and video recordings . on-site inspection shall not be conducted during court proceedings by jury . court actions where the accused is found incompetent in the court session . the court shall issue a ruling to change the procedure of court proceedings . in pleadings, there shall speak the public prosecutor, the victim, his/her representative . participants to court proceedings shall have the right to invoke only such evidence as has been examined in court session . the court shall not limit duration of pleadings by a certain time . after the last plea of the accused, the court retires in deliberations room to pass a judgment . the court shall have the right to discontinue deliberations only for rest with the fall of night . in passing sentence, the court takes note of the pre-trial report with information about the socio-psychological characteristics of the accused . the court shall decide on issues referred to in clauses 1–8 of this Article, separately in respect of each of the defendants . a compulsory medical measure may be applied to a person who committed criminal offence in a state of partial insanity, only if there exist a respective psychiatric expert examination report and conclusion of a medical treatment institution . in cases specified in this Code, a ruling shall be passed in deliberations room . corrections in a court decision shall be certified by signatures of judges . all court decisions shall be are set out in writing in paper and electronic forms . judgment of acquittal shall also be delivered whenever the court establishes grounds for closing criminal proceedings . judgment of conviction may not be grounded on assumptions . a judgment shall be comprised of introduction, reasoning part and operative part . motives for imposition of punishment; for releasing from service of punishment . motives of appointing a public tutor for the underage person; grounds for granting, dismissing or leaving undecided the civil action . operationtive part of judgment shall state: last name, first name and patronymic of the defendant; decision on finding him/her innocent . decision regarding punishment for each charge which the court found proved . the operative part of a judgment shall state on which the defendant is acquitted and on which he/she is convicted . the court shall specify the duration of the probation period, duties imposed on the convicted person . court decision shall be passed by a majority of judges comprising the court . a court decision shall be pronounced publicly immediately after the court has left deliberations room . the full text of the ruling shall be issued no later than within five days upon pronouncement of the operative part of decision . participants to court proceedings shall have the right to obtain in court a copy of the court’s judgment or ruling (resolution) a copy of a court decision shall be forwarded to the participant to court proceedings who was absent in the court session . the sentence on a person who is a state executive officer shall be notified no later than the next day after it is passed . court has right to correct clerical errors, obvious arithmetic errors in decision of this court . court shall decide the issue of introducing corrections in the court session . participants to court proceedings shall be informed on the date, time, and place . the court shall consider the indictment for committing a criminal offence without conducting a court hearing in the absence of the participants to the proceedings . the sentence based on the results of the simplified procedure shall be passed in accordance with the procedure stipulated by Code . the public prosecutor and the court shall explain to the accused the possibility and specific aspects of hearing his/her case in criminal proceedings in the trial by jury . the person accused of committing a crime punishable with life imprisonment, in the course of the preparatory court session, shall have the right to submit a motion . summons shall indicate the date, time and place of holding the court session and the rights and duties of a juror . a juror shall have the right to participate in examination of all information and evidence . he/she shall answer questions regarding possible impediments stipulated by this Code or law . jurors shall be selected upon opening of the court session . jurors may be challenged by participants to court proceedings on grounds prescribed by Articles 75 and 76 hereof . issues related to the dismissal of a juror from participation in trial shall be decided by a ruling of the court composed of two judges . where the judges do not reach a unanimous decision on the issue related to dismissal or recusal of juror, he or she shall be deemed dismissed . a juror may be removed and relieved from further participation in the criminal proceedings in the following cases . the jury trial shall make a ruling on replacing the dismissed principal jurors with the reserve ones . presiding judge shall propose to juror that he will fulfil his duties honestly and impartially . the jury’s deliberation shall be directed by the presiding judge . no one of the jurors may abstain from voting, except for the case when decision is made on fixing a punishment . court decisions may be challenged under appellate procedure . rulings rendered during court proceedings in the court of first instance prior to the adoption of court decisions shall not be subject to a separate appeal . investigating judge’s rulings may also be challenged under appellate procedure, in cases specified by part 1 this Code . a court of first instance’s judgment based on an agreement of conciliation between the victim and the suspect or accused may be challenged under appellate procedure . the accused, his/her defence counsel, legal representative may challenge the court’s decision exclusively on the following grounds: imposition by court of a more severe punishment than has been agreed upon . a court of first instance’s judgment based on an agreement between public prosecutor and the suspect or accused on a guilty plea may be challenged by the accused, his/her defence counsel, legal representative . a decision on choosing a measure of restraint in the form of detention, on changing another measure of restraining, or on extending the term detention may be appealed . the appellate complaint shall be filed through the court which has passed the decision . appellate complaint may be filed within 30 days from the date of pronouncement . for persons kept in custody, the time limit for filing appeal complaint is 30 days . Appellate complaint shall state: 1) name of the appellate court; 2) last name, patronymic (appellation), place of residence (stay), as well as number of communication means, e-mail address, if any . a court of first instance shall send the appellate complaint together with records of criminal proceedings to the court of appellate instance . the judge-rapporteur shall within three days pass the ruling to open appeal proceedings . in the absence of impediments, he/she shall refuse to open proceedings, or take no action on the complaint, return the complaint or refuse to examine evidence . the judge-rapporteur shall pass the ruling to take no action on the appellate complaint . where the appellant has eliminated shortcomings of the complaint within time limit, the complaint shall be deemed to be filed the day it was first submitted to the court of appellate instance . the ruling may be challenged by way of cassation . filing an appellate complaint against judgment or ruling of the court shall deter the taking of legal effect by such decisions and execution thereof . filing an appeal against the decision of the investigating judge, the court's decision to choose a measure of restraint in the form of detention . the judge-rapporteur shall: 1) send copies of the ruling on the opening of appeal proceedings to the participants to court proceedings . the defendant shall be summoned to participate in the appeal proceedings . the appellant shall have the right to withdraw his/her appellate complaint . defence counsel of the suspect, accused, and victim’s representative may withdraw . the appellant shall have the right to change or supplement his/her appellate complaint . the court of appeals instance shall review decisions of the first instance court . it may go beyond the scope of the appellate demands where the status of the accused is not aggravated . the appellant shall be the first to take the floor to produce arguments, as well as in pleadings . failure to appear of the parties or other participants to the criminal proceedings shall not preclude holding of the appeal proceedings . a copy of the court of appellate instance’s decision shall be sent to the participants to court proceedings within three days . the appellate court shall have the right to set aside the judgment and forward the criminal proceedings . following the appeal review of a complaint against a decision of the investigating judge or a court decision on a measure of restraint in the form of detention . the court of appellate instance shall change a judgment in the following cases: mitigation of the imposed punishment . court of appellate instance shall change a court ruling to apply compulsory medical or reformatory measures . grounds for setting aside or changing court decisions in consideration of a case are incomplete nature of the court proceedings . a trial shall be deemed incomplete where circumstances which may have been important for rendering a lawful, reasoned and fair judgment were not investigated . a court decision shall be subject to setting aside or changing on the above specified grounds only where the inconsistency of the court of first instance’s findings with factual circumstances of criminal proceedings has affected or could affect the disposal of the issue of guilt or innocence of the defendant . Article 413. Wrong application of the Law of Ukraine on criminal liability entailing setting aside, shall be non-application by court of a statute subject to be applied . court of appellate instance shall set aside the judgment or ruling of the court and assign a new trial in the court of first instance . if violations have been ascertained specified in clauses 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, part 2 of Article 412 hereof; if a judge whose qualification was challenged participated in the adoption of court’s decision . findings and motives of setting aside court decisions, shall be binding on the court in the new trial . in new proceedings in the court of first instance it shall be permitted to apply a statute pertaining to a more grave criminal offence and providing for more severe punishment . the issue related to the imposition of compulsory medical or reformatory measures, legal qualification of the action committed as more grave . court of appeals shall set aside the judgment of the court of first instance and pass its own judgment in the following cases . a court of appellate instance shall overturn a ruling on the application of compulsory measures of reformatory or medical nature . in the case of acquittal, the court shall state the grounds for finding the appellate complaint groundless . reversal of groundless court ruling refusing to apply compulsory medical or reformatory measures and closure of criminal proceedings in respect of insane or underage person . a ruling of a court of first instance may be overturned only where an appellate complaint based on such grounds was filed . appeal against a court decision on the choice of a measure of restraint in the form of detention . judge-rapporteur shall immediately demand and obtain from the court of first instance the respective records . an appellate complaint against an investigating judge’s ruling shall be considered not later than within three days after its receipt . appeals against the decision of the court on the choice of a measure of restraint in the form of detention shall be considered no later than three days after their receipt . the ruling of the appellate court based on the results of consideration of the appeal against the court decision shall enter into force after its promulgation . a court of first instance’s judgments and rulings on the application or refusal to apply compulsory medical or reformatory measures may be challenged under cassation procedure . a judge’s decision affirming a conviction without the convicted person’s consent to imposition of punishment is not subject to challenge in case specified by this Code . a cassation complaint shall be filed by: 1) a convict, his/her legal representative or defence counsel . a court of appellate instance’s ruling based on review thereof shall not be subject to challenge . cassation complaint shall be filed within three months from the date on which decision of the court of appellate instance was pronounced . a convict held in custody shall be given the same time limits . records of criminal proceedings shall not be demanded and obtained from the court which executes the court decision . a court of cassation instance shall open a case within five days from the date of receipt . the court may refuse to open cassations where there are no grounds for granting the complaint . a copy of the ruling to open or to reject a complaint shall be sent to the person who filed it . a copy of the ruling not to take action on the cassation complaint shall be immediately sent to the person who has filed the complaint . a court shall dispose of the issue of opening cassations proceedings within five days . the judge-rapporteur shall fix time limits for the submission of objections . a convict shall be subject to mandatory summoning to participate in the cassation proceedings . Article 431. Individuals referred to in Article 425 of this Code, shall have the right to file with the court of cassations instance objections to a complaint . a judge-rapporteur shall pass the ruling on the termination of preparation and assignment of the case . a court of cassation shall review judgments of first and appellate instance courts . the judge-rapporteur shall narrate in the necessary scope the contents of the challenged decisions . where both parties to the criminal proceedings file cassations, the defending parties shall be the first to produce arguments . failure of the parties or other participants to the court proceedings shall not preclude cassation review . judges shall retire to the deliberations room to pass a decision . a court which hears criminal proceedings shall refer such criminal proceedings to a chamber to which such a panel is a member . a court which hears criminal proceedings under cassation procedure shall refer such criminal proceedings to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court . a panel of judges (chamber, joint chamber) deems it necessary to withdraw from the opinion on the application of the rule of law in such legal relations . criminal proceedings returned to the panel (Chamber, Joint Chamber) shall not be re-referred to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court . the court of cassation instance shall have the right to take a decision based on the results of written proceedings . a ruling of the court of appellate instance in respect of a court of first instance‘s judgment may be reversed . a judgment of conviction or a decision to close criminal proceedings may not be reversible . the right to reopen criminal proceedings shall not be affected by a cassation complaint . in reviewing a case, the court shall be governed by Articles 412–414 hereof . court of cassation instance shall conduct court proceedings in a different composition of court . instructions of the court which has reviewed the case shall be binding on the new proceedings . the application of more severe punishment or of a statute providing for more grave offence, shall only be admissible if the judgment was reversed . a ruling of the court of cassation instance shall consists of: introduction, title (number) of criminal proceedings, last name, first name and patronymic of suspect or accused, year, month and date of his/her birth, place of birth and place of residence . ruling shall state rules which overturn arguments contained in the case . a decision of the Supreme Court shall be final and not subject to appeal . after cassation proceedings have ended, records of criminal proceedings shall be forwarded to the court of first instance within seven days . the following shall be recognised as newly-discovered circumstances: artificial manufacture or falsification of evidence, incorrect translation of the findings and explanations of expert . establishing the guilt of a judge in committing a criminal offence or abuse of office by an investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge or court during criminal proceedings . participants to the court proceedings shall have the right to lodge a request to review upon discovery of new or exceptional circumstance . a decision adopted by a court of any instance which has taken legal effect . review may be allowed only within periods of limitation prescribed by law . request to review a court decision upon discovery of new or exceptional circumstances shall be lodged in written form . request shall state: 1) name of the court to which request is submitted; 2) last name, first name, patronymic (appellation), mailing address of the person who has filed the request . defence counsel or the victim's representative shall attach duly executed documents certifying his/her powers as required by this Code . request to review the court decision upon discovery of new or exceptional circumstances shall be transmitted to a judge of the court, panel of judges in the manner prescribed by Article 35 of this Code . a copy of the ruling shall be immediately sent to the requestor . where the court admits withdrawal, it shall close the criminal proceedings and pass the appropriate ruling . request to review court decision upon discovery of new or exceptional circumstances shall be considered by the court within two months after it has been received . participants to the court proceedings shall be informed of the date, time and place where the request will be reviewed . the court shall have the right to reverse the judgment or ruling and render a new judgment or pass a ruling . reconciliation agreement may be concluded on the initiative of the victim, the suspect or the accused, the defence counsel and a representative or with the assistance of another person as agreed between the parties to the criminal proceedings . a reconciliation agreement in criminal proceedings for criminal offences related to domestic violence may be conclusive only on initiative of victim, his/her representative or legal representative . a plea agreement between the public prosecutor and the suspect or accused may be concluded in respect of criminal offences, crimes as a result of which the damage is caused only to the state or public interests . a reconciliation agreement may be initiated at any time between the moment of notifying the person of the suspicion and retirement of judges into the deliberations room to pass the sentence/judgment . a reconciliation agreement shall indicate its parties, statement of the suspicion or charges and their legal determination . the amount of damage caused by the criminal offence, the time period for completion of such actions, agreed punishment and consent of the parties . a plea agreement may include conditions of application of asset forfeiture, the implications of conclusion and approval of the agreement . the agreement shall indicate the date of its conclusion and shall be signed by the parties . for the victim, it shall be restriction of his/her right to appeal against a sentence . the court shall examine the agreement during the preparatory court session . the accused has the right to a fair court hearing during which the public prosecutor shall prove beyond any reasonable doubt each circumstance in respect of the criminal offence of which he/she is accused . the fact of keeping silence shall not have any probative value for the court; be represented by the defence counsel or conduct his/her own defence . court shall make sure that the agreement was concluded voluntarily, that is without use of compulsion, threats or promises . court shall deny approval of the agreement where the terms and conditions contradict the requirements of this Code and/or the law . judgment based on the agreement may be appealed against in accordance with the procedure stipulated by this Code . in case of non-execution of the agreement, the victim or the public prosecutor may address the court with the motion to revoke the judgment . the motion for revocation of the judgment, by which the agreement was approved, shall be examined in the court session . revocation of the judgment by which the agreement was approved shall entail scheduling the court proceedings in accordance with the regular procedure . deliberate non-execution of the agreement shall be the reason for making the person criminally liable under the law . private criminal proceedings may be initiated by the investigator or public prosecutor only based on the victim’s report . damage caused to the victim in the private criminal proceedings may be repaired on the grounds of a reconciliation agreement or without such . a special procedure for the criminal proceedings shall apply with regard to: 1) a member of parliament of Ukraine; 2) a judge, as well as a juror while performing his/her duties in court . 1. a written notice of suspicion shall be sent 1) to a defence attorney, a councillor of local council; a village, settlement, city mayor . a judge shall not be apprehended or be subject to an imposed measure of restraint . without the consent of the Supreme Council of justice, he or she may not be detained . prosecutors may instruct other prosecutors to make a written notice of suspicion . a judge detained on suspicion of committing an act for which criminal liability has been established shall be released immediately . detention during or immediately after the commission of a grave or special grave crime shall be allowed only if the purpose of such detention is achieved . Article 482-2. Specific aspects of the procedure for prosecuting, detaining, choosing a measure of restraint against a Member of Parliament of Ukraine . detention of a Member of Parliament of Ukraine shall be permitted only where the latter was caught during or immediately after committing a grave or special grave crime . the rulings on the results of consideration of such petitions may be appealed in the cases provided for by this Code . criminal proceedings in respect of underage persons shall be governed by the general rules of this Code . the investigator, public prosecutor, investigating judge, court and others participating therein shall perform procedural actions in a manner which intrudes the least on the underage person's usual way of life . underage suspect or accused shall be subjected to a comprehensive psychological-psychiatric and psychological examination . psychological examination may be assigned to establish the level of development, other social and psychological personal traits of the underage person . conditions in which an underage suspected or accused lives and is brought up shall be found out . parents or other legal representatives of the underage person shall participate in the criminal proceedings involving an underage suspect or accused . their failure to appear in the court session shall not preclude judicial proceedings, except in cases when court finds their participation indispensable . the court upon his/her plea or public prosecutor’s motion or proprio motu, may by its ruling limit the participation of the legal representative concerned . underage suspects or accused may be committed to supervision of their parents, custodians, caretakers or administration of the children care institution's administration . a person who undertook to conduct supervision shall have the right to refuse further fulfilling of this obligation, upon giving a notice thereon in advance . the court shall collect information on parents and other persons, their relations with the underage, and ascertain their ability to duly supervise them . parents, custodians, caretakers or administration of children care institution shall be advised of the nature of suspicion or charges brought against the underage . for a breach of the obligation concerned, they shall be subject to imposition of pecuniary penalty in the amount of 2 to 5 times minimum wages . representatives of children’s services and authorised unit of the national police shall have the right to submit motions . public prosecutor shall draw up a motion to impose on the underage person compulsory reformatory measures . procedural actions shall be conducted at the stage of pre-trial investigation . participation of a defence counsel in criminal proceedings shall be mandatory . the period of keeping the person in a children’s placement centre may be extended by investigating judge’s or court’s ruling by up to thirty days . court proceedings shall end in passing a ruling on the application of compulsory reformatory measures or on refusal to apply such measures . court shall find out: 1) whether a socially dangerous action has really occurred; 2) whether such action was committed by the underage concerned in the age from eleven till the age of criminal liability for this act . a court may take into account the state of partial insanity as the grounds for application of compulsory medical measures . a person committed a socially dangerous act provided for the by the law of Ukraine on criminal liability in a state of insansity . the court may consider the commission of the act or criminal offence by the person concerned . a court may apply to a person in whose respect it is provided to apply compulsory medical measures the following measures of restraint: commitment for care to custodians, close relatives or family members; placement in a psychiatric care facility under the regime which excludes their dangerous behaviour. court shall impose measures of restraint to the person as soon as the fact of mental disorder or mental disease has been established . investigator, inquiring officer or public prosecutor shall involve an expert (experts) to conduct a psychiatric examination . such circumstances are inter alia the following: 1) mental disorder, partially insane or was insane at the time of commission of a criminal offence . pre-trial investigation in the criminal proceedings regarding application of compulsory medical measures shall end with closing proceedings or drawing up a motion to apply medical measures . court shall pass a ruling on the application of the medical measures or on the refusal to apply them . court may close criminal proceedings regarding application of compulsory medical measures . insanity of the person at the moment of the commission of the socially dangerous action has not been established . change or termination of application of a compulsory medical measure shall be effected where the person has recovered . consideration of the issue of extending, changing or terminating the application of compulsory medical measure may also be conducted upon a written motion of the person to whom compulsory medical measures are applied, or his/her defence counsel or legal representative . the court, based on the opinion of the panel of psychiatrists, shall by its ruling terminate the application if the person fell ill with mental disease or suffered a temporary mental disorder . criminal proceedings involving information that constitutes state secret shall be conducted in accordance with the rules governing secrecy order . a suspect or a defendant shall participate in the criminal proceedings without having a formal access to state secret . access to records containing information containing state secret is granted to defence counsels and legal representatives of the suspect, accused, victim . the suspect or accused, his/her defence counsels and legal representatives may take notes from the records containing state secrets . notes shall be sealed in a manner precluding access to their contents . conducting criminal proceedings which contain a state secret shall not be grounds for limiting the rights of its participants . criminal proceedings in the territory of diplomatic missions, consular posts, on the air, sea, or river craft, which navigates outside the limits of Ukraine under the flag or with distinctive sign of Ukraine whenever the home port of such craft is located in Ukraine . official authorised to conduct procedural actions shall be: 1) head of the diplomatic mission or consular post of Ukraine or designated official . a request for the arrest of temporarily seized property shall be filed not later than on the working day following the day after the person detained has been brought in the territory of Ukraine . Head of a diplomatic mission or consular post of Ukraine shall have the right to detain an individual for a required period, but not in excess of forty eight hours . lost records of criminal proceedings may be restored upon the application of a participant to the court proceedings . close relatives of the accused who died shall have the right to file the respective application . the application for restoration of lost records shall be filed with the court which delivered the judgment . documents or copies thereof shall be accompanied with the application, even if they are not duly authenticated . court shall refuse to open proceedings on the restoration of lost records of criminal proceedings . judge shall take measures to obtain from public prosecutor the information and copies of respective procedural documents . court shall have the right to examine as witnesses persons who were present during the conduct of procedural actions . a judgment or ruling of a court of first instance, a ruling of the investigating judge, shall enter into legal force after the expiry of the time limit for lodging an appeal complaint . a decision of the court of appeals and cassation shall take effect from the moment of its pronouncement . Article 535. Enforcement of court decision in the criminal proceedings . a court decision shall be enforced within three days after it has entered into legal force . execution by the state treasury shall be conducted by the procedure of indisputable write-off . a sentence to correctional works, arrest, restriction of freedom, keeping in military disciplinary unit of military servants, deprivation of freedom may be deferred . deferral of execution of a sentence shall not be permitted in respect of persons sentenced (except as provided for by clause 2, part 1 of this Article) for grave crimes and special grave crimes . the court specified in part 2 of Article539 of this Code shall have the right to decide on issues to be decided by the court during execution of sentence . challenges to decisions, acts or omissions of the administration of a pre-trial detention facility shall be made in accordance with clause 13-1, part 1 of this Article . a victim, civil plaintiff, civil defendant and other persons shall have the right to file motions with the court, seeking decisions concerning directly their rights, duties or legitimate interests . a motion for deciding on a matter related to execution of a conviction shall be considered within ten days of its filing by a sole judge . motions (requests) on the application of sanctions to persons deprived of their liberty in the form of transfer a convict to a cell-type room (individual cell) and on forced feeding . summons to attend court session shall be sent to the convict, his/her defence counsel . notice of the time and venue of consideration of the motion (request) shall be served on the penal body or institution in charge of execution of punishment . failure of the persons who have been duly notified to appear shall not be to the prejudice of the hearing . time spent by a sentenced person in a medical institution during his/her serving the sentence in the form of deprivation of liberty, shall be credited to the service of sentence . international legal aid shall mean conducting procedural actions by competent authorities of one state . extradition includes: sending official request for establishing whereabouts of the person sought in the territory of the requested state and for surrender of such person . international treaties of Ukraine may provide for other forms of co-operation in criminal proceedings than those specified in this Code . in the absence of an international treaty of Ukraine, international legal aid may be provided upon the request from another state . temporary arrest means detaining a person sought for committing a crime outside Ukraine until a request for surrender (extradition) is received . the designated (central) authority of Ukraine shall consider request of a foreign state only if the requesting state has guaranteed in written form to receive and consider in future the Ukraine’s request . the Prosecutor General’s Office of Ukraine makes requests for international legal aid in criminal proceedings during a pre-trial investigation . if as a result of execution in Ukraine of the request, information was obtained which under law is deemed state secret, such information may be transmitted . a request for international cooperation shall be drawn up by an authority conducting criminal proceedings or an agency authorised by that authority . request and documents attached thereto shall be accompanied by a translation certified in accordance with the established procedure . requests shall be sent abroad by mail or, in case of emergency, may be sent by e-mail, fax, or other means of communication . the competent authority of Ukraine may waive the requirement in respect of their returning back after the completion of the criminal proceedings in the requesting party . documents forwarded in connection with the request for international assistance are accepted in the territory of Ukraine without additional attestation (legalisation) information contained in the records obtained as a result of execution of actions stipulated in the request do not require legalisation . request for international legal aid shall comply with the requirements of this Code or the international treaty of Ukraine which is applied in particular case . the request may be drawn up in the form of a letter rogatory . information on the evidence in the case which substantiates the need in appropriate actions . a request for international legal aid shall be approved in writing by the public prosecutor monitoring compliance with the law during a pre-trial investigation . information obtained from the requested party as a result of execution of the request, may be used only in the criminal proceedings to which the request was related . the Prosecutor General’s Office of Ukraine shall have the right, within the scope of its powers, to issue orders . request of the requesting party for legal aid may be rejected in cases specified in the international treaty of Ukraine . execution of the request may be refused if execution will contradict the constitutional principles or may harm sovereignty, security, public order or any other essential interest of ukraine . the central authority of Ukraine for international legal aid or an authority empowered to conduct relations in accordance with part 3 of Article545 of this Code shall decide on the following: 1) commissioning a pre-trial investigation agency, a prosecution office, or a court to execute a request; 2) postponing the execution where it may harm the legal proceedings in the territory of Ukraine; 3) refusing execution on the grounds stipulated by Article557 hereof . a request from a foreign competent authority for international legal aid shall be executed within one month of its receipt by the actual executor . the time period for its execution may be extended by a central authority of Ukraine or an authority empowered to conduct relations with competent foreign authorities . a pre-trial investigation agency or an investigator shall refer the records of the executed request to a public prosecutor monitoring compliance with the law . a central authority of Ukraine for international legal aid or an authority empowered to conduct relations in accordance with part 3 Article545 hereof shall return such a request to a competent foreign authority along with a statement of grounds for refusal . provision of legal aid may be fully or partly postponed where execution of the request would obstruct pre-trial investigation or judicial proceedings which is pending in Ukraine . a representative of a foreign competent authority shall not have the right to exercise discretion in conducting any procedural actions in the territory of Ukraine . the documents and statements attached to a request shall be served to the person specified in the request . where a person fails to appear without valid excuse, the enforcement procedure specified by this Code may be applied. a pre-trial investigation agency, an investigator, a public prosecutor or a court shall draw up a protocol on the delivery of documents to the person . the protocol shall be signed by the person on whom the documents are being served . if a person refuses to accept the documents to be served a corresponding entry shall be made in the protocol . a person staying outside Ukraine may be summoned upon a request (order) for international legal aid to participate in investigative and other procedural activities in the territory of Ukraine . a suspect, defendant or convict may be arrested or subjected to a restraint measure or restriction of personal freedom . Article567. Examination upon a request from a foreign competent authority by means of a video or telephone conference . examination shall be conducted as prescribed in the procedural law of the requesting party . Article568. Search, arrest and confiscation of assets . authorities of Ukraine shall conduct procedural actions to detect and arrest assets, money and valuables . assets referred to clause 1, part 3 of this Article, shall not be surrendered to the requesting party . confiscated assets shall be turned into revenue of the State Budget of Ukraine . a report shall be drawn up upon detection of contraband delivery . records of criminal proceedings documenting illegal activities in the territory of Ukraine . joint investigative groups may be set up to conduct pre-trial investigation . a person who believes that decisions, acts or omissions by government authorities of Ukraine or their officials or officers have compromised those persons' rights, freedoms or interests, shall have the right to appeal . a request for surrender (extradition) may be submitted only provided that at least one of the offences for which an extradition is requested may be punished with at least a year imprisonment . requests for temporary extradition and transit shall be submitted and considered in accordance with the same procedures that apply to requests for extradition . a central authority of Ukraine shall have the right to refuse to send the request to a foreign state where circumstances referred to in this Code or the international treaty of Ukraine do exist . a request for extradition shall be drawn up by an investigator or a public prosecutor monitoring compliance with the law during a pre-trial investigation . it shall contain information about a person whose extradition is requested, and the circumstances and the assessment of the offence committed by that person . a request for extradition shall be submitted to the respective central authority of Ukraine via respective oblast's prosecutor's office . a person who has been extradited to Ukraine may be held criminally liable or a sentence can be enforced against this person . a person can be held criminally liable for a crime committed before the extradition . a request for such consent shall be prepared and sent according to the procedures . provisions of this Article shall not be applied where the extradited person has consented . provisional extradition may be granted to prevent expiry of statute of limitations . a person in whose respect the issue of surrender (extradition) to a foreign state is considered shall have the following rights: 1) to know in connection with what criminal offence the request for surrender has been made; 2) to have a defence counsel and meet him/her under conditions which ensure confidentiality of consultation; 3) when detained, to notify close relatives, family members, or other persons about his/her detention and whereabouts; 4) to participate in consideration by the court of issues related to its being kept in custody and detention in the territory of Ukraine of a person wanted by a foreign state in relation to committing a criminal offence shall be made by an authorised officer . a detained person shall be released immediately where: 1) within sixty hours after detention the person was not taken to an investigating judge for entertaining a request for choosing a preventive measure against this person . a detained person's written request on consent to his/her surrender (extradition) shall be handled by an investigating judge within the shortest possible time . the court shall decide on the exercise of a provisional arrest . if the detainee has not consented to surrender, he/she will be released on bail . a copy of the ruling of the investigating judge shall be sent to the authorised (central) body of Ukraine . a person to whom provisional arrest has been applied may submit a written request for consent to his/her surrender (extradition) a public prosecutor shall make a request to the investigating judge on enforcing an extradition arrest against this person . records shall be translated into the state language or into another language envisaged by the international treaty, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . terms of detention and procedures for extending these terms shall be established by this Code . a copy of the ruling of the investigating judge shall be sent to the authorised (central) body of Ukraine . extradition arrest shall be exercised until the issue of surrender (extradition) is settled . it shall not last longer than twelve months . a person to whom extradition arrest has been applied shall have the right to submit a written statement of consent to his/her surrender (extradition) to the investigating judge of the court within the territorial jurisdiction of which the person is kept in custody . a measure of restraint other than keeping in custody may be applied to a wanted person where existing circumstances guarantee the prevention of an escape of the person . the investigation judge shall have regard to the following: 1) information on the person’s evading from justice in the  a person in respect of whom a measure of restraint other than to detention has been applied shall have the right to submit a written request for consent to his/her surrender (extradition) to the investigating judge . provisional arrest or measure of restriction shall be terminated where: 1) the central authority of Ukraine has not received a request for surrender of this person within the period of time set forth in the international treaty of Ukraine. extradition examination shall be conducted within sixty days. this term can be extended by a respective central authority of Ukraine . a person's consent to surrender (extradition) may be revoked by the person before their approval by the investigating judge . the authorised (central) body of Ukraine may apply the procedure under simplified procedure only with the consent of such person . authorised (central) body of Ukraine shall immediately inform the competent body of the foreign state, which has the person on the wanted list to be prosecuted or sentenced . in parallel, it shall request for the intention of a foreign state to request the surrender (extradition) of the person in the future . the authorised (central) body of Ukraine may request additional information or documents from the competent authority of a foreign state . the decision on surrender (extradition) under simplified procedure may be made before the request of the competent . authority of the foreign state without mandatory extradition inspection in full . the transfer of a person in respect of whom a decision on surrender (extradition) has been made under simplified procedure shall be made within ten working days from the date of notification of the said decision to the competent authority of the foreign state . if the authorised (central) body of ukraine decides to refuse to surrender, the surrender of the person shall be conducted in accordance with this Code and international treaties of Ukraine . a person may not be extradited to the state from which he has been recognised to have taken refuge, or to a foreign state where his/her health, life or liberty may be in jeopardy . extradition may be refused on the grounds of race, denomination (religion), ethnicity, citizenship (nationality), affiliation with a particular social group or political conviction . the central authority of Ukraine shall decide to surrender (extradite) of the person to the foreign state . a decision to surrender (extradite) a person may be appealed by the person in whose respect it has been made, his/her defence counsel or legal representative . the central authority of Ukraine may stay surrender of the person to the foreign state as a matter of fact . a person in whose respect a decision to surrender (extradite) has been made is prosecuted or serves a punishment of deprivation or restraint of liberty in Ukraine for commission of another offence in the territory of Ukraine . the central authority of Ukraine shall give appropriate instructions (make requests before) competent authorities of Ukraine after such decision has come into effect . a request of competent authorities of foreign states for taking over of criminal proceedings by Ukraine must be considered within twenty days of its receipt . criminal proceedings may not be taken over if: a) extradition under this Code or the appropriate international treaty of Ukraine is impossible, or his/her extradition was refused; b) the requesting state has given guarantees that, if a sentence is passed in Ukraine in respect of the prosecuted person, he/she will not prosecute on behalf of the state in the  criminal proceedings which have been taken over from another state, shall begin with the stage of pre-trial investigation, and shall be conducted as prescribed by this Code . information obtained by appropriate competent authorities of another state in its territory, may be found admissible during trial in Ukraine . punishment imposed by court shall not be more severe than punishment provided for by law of the requesting state for the same criminal offence . unfinished criminal proceedings may be transferred to another state on condition that extradition of the person subject to prosecution is impossible . a request to transfer criminal proceedings shall comply with provisions of this Code and the respective international treaties of Ukraine, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. a sentence delivered by a court of a foreign state may be recognised and enforced in the territory of Ukraine in cases and in the scope prescribed by the international treaty, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . a request on execution of foreign state’s court sentence shall be considered by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine within thirty days after receipt of the request . a request for execution of a sentence imposed by a foreign court may be refused where such execution contradicts any obligations of Ukraine under its international treaties . the person in whose respect the sentence was delivered shall be informed on the date of court hearing, if such person stays in the territory of Ukraine . the court shall not decide on the issue of the person's guilt . a copy of the ruling shall be sent by the court to the ministry of justice of Ukraine . the court may decide on applying a measure of restraint . a person sentenced by a court of Ukraine may be transferred to another state for serving the sentence imposed . a national of a foreign court may be taken over for serving a sentence . the sentencing state and the administering state agree to the transfer of the sentenced person . sentenced person or his/her legal representative shall have the right to obtain legal aid . if even a single condition out of those specified in parts 1–3 of this Article is not met, the Ministry of justice of Ukraine may refuse to transfer or admit the sentenced . the transfer shall be possible only after actual serving of a part of sentence determined in accordance with part 3 of Article81 . sentenced persons sentenced by Ukrainian courts to imprisonment, for serving the sentence in the state of their nationality, shall be decided on by the Ministry of justice of Ukraine . if the sentenced person is a national of a foreign state, the authority in charge of execution of sentences shall advise him/her of his/her right to apply to be transferred to this state . provisions of this part do not preclude sentenced nationals of other states from applying for the transfer to the state where they live . a sentenced national of a foreign state may raise the issue of his/her release on parole, commutation of the remaining part of the sentence to a less severe one, as well as of pardon, in a procedure established by Ukrainian law . any documents or information required for consideration of the issue in Ukraine shall be required to be demanded and obtained from the competent authorities of the administering state . if an amnesty is declared in Ukraine, the court which received information on the decision to transfer a a request of a foreign state to transfer a Ukrainian national sentenced by a court of that state to imprisonment, for serving their sentences in Ukraine shall be considered by the Ministry of justice of Ukraine within a reasonable time period . in case of refusal to grant the request (petition) for transfer of the sentenced person to Ukraine, the appropriate information shall be sent to the sentencing state . a foreign state's court sentence shall be brought into line with Ukrainian law . a court of first instance in the place of residence of the sentenced person in Ukraine or where the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine is located shall consider the application . the court shall determine the length of the term of imprisonment imposed based on the foreign court's sentence . the length of sentence imposed in the sentence of a foreign state's court is shorter than the minimum length sanctioned by the Article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine for the same criminal offence . the court may also consider the issue of enforcing execution the additional punishment imposed by the sentence . a person transferred to Ukraine for continued serving of punishment may be subject to parole, amnesty or pardon in accordance with the procedure established by the legislation . the Ministry of justice of Ukraine shall inform the designated (central) authority of the sentencing state on the progress or results of execution of the sentence . recognition and enforcement on the territory of Ukraine sentences imposed by international judicial institutions shall be admitted in accordance with the rules laid down in this Code based on the international treaty, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . special rules of pre-trial investigation during martial law, emergency or in the area of the anti-terrorist operation . part 2 of Article45 of this Code, which shall enter into force one year after the Register of Lawyers and Bar Associations has been created . part 5 of Article181 (as far as the possibility to use the electronic monitoring devices is concerned) clause 9 of part 5of Article194, Article195, which enters into force from the day of entry into force of Regulations on the procedure of use thereof . powers of pre-trial investigation of the criminal offences specified herein shall be exercised by investigators of prosecutor's offices . statements and notifications about crimes submitted to the bodies of inquiry, investigators, public prosecutors before this Code has entered into force . criminal cases that, on the day when this Code enters into force, are undergoing proceedings by the inquiry agencies shall be transferred . detective and search operations, investigative and procedural actions initiated before this Code has entered into force, shall be completed under the procedure, which was valid before the effective date of this Code . measures of restraint, arrest of assets, and removal from office applied during the inquiry and pre-trial investigation shall remain valid until they are changed, cancelled or terminated . non-appealed judgments, which were delivered by the courts of first instance, shall enter into legal force under the procedure, which was valid before this Code entered into force . applications for review of the judgments on the basis of newly discovered circumstances submitted to the respective public prosecutors . persons, as of the day when this Code enters into force, participate in criminal proceedings as defence councils and do not have the status of a lawyer . local general courts shall hold meetings of their judges in order to elect investigating judges . powers of the investigating judge specified in this Code shall be executed by the oldest judge of this court until the day when such investigating judge has been elected . not later than three months after publication of this Code, the chief officers of the pre-trial investigation bodies shall define the investigators . special pre-trial investigation shall be conducted on the basis of the ruling of the investigating judge . in respect of a suspect, other than a minor, who is hiding from the investigating authorities and the court for the purpose of evading criminal liability . the disjoining of records concerning them may adversely affect the completeness of the investigation . criminal proceedings in respect of the offences set forth in part 2 of Article297 -1 hereof may be conducted in the absence of the accused (in absentia) except for a minor who is hiding from the investigation and court in order to avoid criminal liability (special court proceedings) and is on the interstate and/or international wanted list . criminal proceedings in which the suspect, other than a minor, has been hiding from the investigation and court for more than six months . jurisdiction of the High Anti-Corruption Court provided for by this Code applies to criminal proceedings, information on which criminal offences are entered in the unified register of pre-trial investigations . from the date of entry into force of the Law of Ukraine "On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine Concerning the Commencement of the High Anti-Corruption Court" investigative judges shall cease to consider motions and complaints in the criminal proceedings . the courts of appeals (except for the Appellate Chamber of the high anti-corruption court) shall stop to consider appellate complaints . appeals against court decisions adopted before the day of the effective date of the law shall be carried out in accordance with judicial proceedings shall be conducted by the High Anti-Corruption Court if the disjoinment of the records of criminal proceedings may adversely affect the completeness of the court proceedings . 20-3. Procedural actions within the framework of international co-operation in connection with the crimes related to the downing of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 on 17 July 2014 shall be held in the manner prescribed by this Code . criminal proceedings for the crimes listed in clause “b” of the Agreement between Ukraine and the kingdom of the Netherlands on international legal co-operation shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this Code . the assignment of powers to public prosecutors of these prosecutor’s offices in criminal proceedings shall be carried out in compliance with the law and features specified by the Prosecutor General . a motion for selection or extension of a measure of restraint in the form of detention may be referred to another judge, determined in accordance with the procedure established by part 3 of Article35 of this Code . the issue of transfer on the basis of paragraph 5 of this clause shall be decided by the presiding judge of the respective appellate court . consideration of issues related to the powers of the investigating judge or court may be conducted via video conference . the court hearing shall be held by video conference, including during the court proceedings . a request for extension of the detention period shall be submitted no later than ten days before the expiry of the ruling on the previous detention . two courtrooms in every local court and four in each appellate court, at least five in the criminal court of cassation . increasing the number of judges and staff of local common courts in view of the need to ensure functions of the investigating judge . Cabinet of ministers with participation of the Prosecutor General’s Office of Ukraine, high qualification commission of judges of Ukraine . president of Ukraine VIKTOR yanukovych the city of kyiv 13 avril 2012 no. 4651-vi .