this Law shall determine the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons staying in Ukraine and establish the procedure for entering and exiting Ukraine . for the purposes of this Law, the following definitions shall apply: forced stop shall mean the stay of a foreigner or stateless person within the territory of Ukraine over the period set for transit through its territory . foreigners and stateless persons temporarily staying on the territory of Ukraine . country of nationality shall mean country or countries of citizenship of a person . irregular immigrant shall mean a foreigner or stateless person who crossed the border outside the border crossing points or using the latter, but avoiding border control . host party shall mean Ukrainian enterprises, institutions and organisations, representative offices (branches) of foreign enterprises . identity document of a stateless person for travelling abroad shall mean a document that identifies a person when crossing the state border of Ukraine and staying abroad . readmission shall mean rendition from the territory of Ukraine or admission on the territory . of Ukraine of foreigners or stateless persons on the grounds and in accordance with the procedure determined by the international treaties . legal representatives of a child shall mean parents (adoptive parents), stepparents, foster parents, custodians, guardians . foreigners and stateless persons staying in Ukraine on legal grounds shall enjoy the same rights and freedoms and bear the same responsibilities . foreigners and stateless persons must strictly comply with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, other regulatory acts . according to the law foreigners may immigrate to Ukraine for permanent residence . foreigners recognised as refugees in Ukraine or granted asylum in Ukraine shall be deemed permanently residing on the territory of Ukraine . foreigners and stateless persons who arrived in Ukraine to participate in the work of branches, representative offices and other structural divisions of public (non-governmental) organisations registered following the determined procedure and obtained a temporary residence permit shall be deemed residing on the territory of Ukraine on legal grounds for the period of activity in Ukraine . foreigners and stateless persons who arrived in Ukraine to study and obtained a temporary residence permit shall be deemed residing on the territory of Ukraine on legal grounds for the period of study . those who arrived for family reunification with persons who are nationals of Ukraine, or while residing in the country for a period until obtaining a permanent residence permit or nationality of Ukraine . foreigners and stateless persons who entered into a military service contract with the Armed Forces of Ukraine following the established procedure shall be deemed temporarily residing on the territory of Ukraine on legal grounds . foreigners and stateless persons specified in part 12, Article 4 of this Law shall be deemed staying on the territory of Ukraine on legal grounds . foreigners and stateless persons staying on the territory of Ukraine on legal grounds must have a valid passport . a person who cannot obtain a passport due to the fact that he/she is not considered as a national by any state under the operation of its law shall have the right to file an application with a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) foreigners and stateless persons have the right to be employed without obtaining such a permit under the legislation of Ukraine . the grounds for issuing a temporary residence permit in the case provided for by part 4, Article 4 of this Law shall be an application of a foreigner or a stateless person, valid health insurance . the grounds for issuing a temporary residence permit in the case provided for by part 7 of Article 4 of this Law shall be an application of a foreigner or stateless persons, valid health insurance . submission of relevant branch, department, representative office and any other structural unit . a legal entity must notify a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) that a foreigner or stateless person lost the status of a founder and/or participant . documents determined in paragraphs 2–6 of clause 4 of this part must be certified by an authorised officer . the official exchange rate set by the National Bank of Ukraine as of the date of contributing the foreign currency . the grounds for issuing a temporary residence permit in the case provided for by part 13, Article 4 of this Law shall be an application of a foreigner or a stateless person . documents confirming belonging to the family shall be deemed valid in Ukraine if it is legalised . a foreigner or stateless person may apply for a temporary residence permit in the case provided for by part 18, Article 4 of this Law . the application must be filed after the expiration of the deadline of their stay in the temporary accommodation centres for foreigners and stateless persons illegally residing in Ukraine . a finding of a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration must be submitted . foreigners and stateless persons specified in part 20 of Article 4 of this Law may submit the following documents for obtaining a temporary residence permit . a competent authority shall return the passport to a person immediately after accepting the application for issuance or extension of the validity period . in case of a refusal to file submission or petition provided for by clauses 1 and 2 of this part, a foreigner or stateless person may file a judgment on establishing that he/she belongs to specified persons . temporary residence permit in cases provided for by part 20, Article 4 of this Law shall be issued . government authorities shall be prohibited to demand other documents or information from foreigners or stateless persons, their family members, employers and other persons . the validity period of a temporary residence . permit for relevant categories of foreigners and stateless people shall be: . 1) in the case determined by part 4 of Article 4of this Law – two years; 4) in all other cases determined by Article 4 – one year; . in the validity period of temporary residence permit may not exceed the validity period of a passport . foreigners and stateless persons must obtain long-term visa to obtain a permit in Ukraine . a foreigner or stateless person must submit documents for extending validity period . administrative fee for issuing and extending the validity period of a temporary residence permit shall be charged in the amount of 20 tax-exempt minimum incomes of nationals . a foreigner or stateless person may be recognised as a refugee or a person in need of subsidiary protection, or they may be granted temporary protection . information about a child shall be provided in an application of one of his/her legal representatives . an application for recognising an incapacitated person as a stateless person shall be filed . a person shall have the right to an interview with authorised persons of a central executive authority . person filing the application for recognition as a stateless person must co-operate with a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) a person filing application who does not speak Ukrainian shall be provided with an interpreter of the language he/she speaks, as well as translation of documents on a free-of-charge basis . for the period of considering the application for recognition as a stateless person, a person shall be deemed temporarily staying on the territory of Ukraine on legal grounds . if circumstances are established which indicate the availability of conditions for recognising a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection or asylum, consideration of the application shall be suspended . central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) shall make a decision on denying the recognition as a stateless person . if a person who filed the application is a national of Ukraine or another state provided that his/her nationality was recognised by a competent authority of such a . state; if applicant deliberately submitted invalid documents, forged documents or communicated false information about the circumstances impacting the determination of his status . if a person who filed the application on recognition as a stateless person exercised the right to appeal, a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) shall extend the validity period of his/her certificate on the application . a decision on cancelling the decision on the recognition as stateless persons may be appealed in the administrative court within 20 business days . if a person in whose respect a decision on cancelling the decision on the recognition as a stateless person was made exercised the right to appeal, a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) shall not seize his/her temporary or permanent residence permit and an identity document . central executive authorities shall resolve the issue on voluntary return or forcible deportation . foreigners and stateless persons may be granted asylum following the procedure determined by law . a foreigner or stateless person may be denied issuance of a visa in the cases of: threat to the national security of the state or public order, public health, protection of the rights and legitimate interests of nationals of Ukraine . a decision to deny issuance of a visa shall be made by the competent authorities, which decided to grant and issue it . visa may be cancelled during the stay of foreigners and stateless persons on the territory of Ukraine in case of: invalid passport or passport issued to another person, or other forged documents . entry to Ukraine for foreigners and stateless person shall not be allowed: in the interests of the national security of Ukraine or public order, or combating the organised crime . information about a foreigner or stateless . person shall be entered into the database of persons who are not allowed to enter Ukraine . foreigners and stateless persons shall be prohibited from further entering Ukraine for ten years . in case of illegal crossing of the state border of Ukraine, foreigners shall be apprehended and, unless their violation of the legislation of Ukraine provides for criminal liability, shall be returned to the country of the previous stay . information on them shall be entered into the database of persons who are not allowed to enter Ukraine or are temporarily restricted from exiting from Ukraine . foreigners and stateless persons who arrived at the entry/exit checkpoints from the temporarily occupied territory without an appropriate permit shall not be allowed to continue travelling . if it is impossible to immediately return a foreigner or stateless person, they shall remain at the exit checkpoint until their return . entry into Ukraine and exit from Ukraine shall be carried out under a passport containing a relevant visa . foreigners and stateless persons entering Ukraine or staying on the territory of Ukraine shall be registered at the border crossing points at the state border of Ukraine . state border security authorities shall issue a passport and a temporary residence permit to foreigners entering the country . foreigners who are nationals of the states which have entered into agreements with Ukraine on local border traffic shall enter Ukraine under passports and accreditation cards . a registration stamp made in a passport and/or immigration card or other documents of a foreigner or a stateless person shall be valid throughout the territory of Ukraine . rules of registration of foreigners and stateless persons shall not apply to persons who illegally crossed the state border of Ukraine with the intention of recognising them as refugees . heads of states and governments of foreign countries, members of parliament and government delegations, technical personnel supporting such delegations and their families are exempt from registration . a foreigner or stateless person staying on the territory of Ukraine on legal grounds may be granted an extension for the period of their stay . the procedure for registering persons specified in paragraphs 5 and 6 of this part shall be determined by the Ministry of foreign affairs of Ukraine . stay on the territory of Ukraine shall be extended by the territorial bodies of a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) identity documents for return shall be executed and issued by a cea . transit of foreigners and stateless persons through territory of ukraine shall be subject to a Ukrainian transit visa . foreigners and stateless persons staying in Ukraine on legal grounds may freely exit from the territory of Ukraine in accordance with the determined procedure . a foreigner or stateless person shall not be allowed to exit from Ukraine if he/she was served charge papers of committing a crime or a judgment is pending on a criminal case by the court . if a foreigner or stateless person has no grounds for temporary residence determined by parts 4–12, Article 4 of this Law, their period of stay shall be reduced . the decision-making procedure and procedure for reducing the period of temporary stay of foreigners and stateless persons on the territory of Ukraine shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . provisions of this Article shall not apply to persons covered by the Law of Ukraine “On Refugees and Persons in Need of Subsidiary Protection or Asylum foreigners and stateless persons who received a notice of refusal to recognise them as refugees or persons in need of subsidiary protection in Ukraine must voluntarily return to the country of origin or a third country within the set period of time . a decision on the voluntary return shall be made by the territorial body of a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration . a foreigner and stateless person may be forcibly returned to the country of origin or a third country . the specified period of time must not exceed 30 days after the date of the decision . in case of a voluntary return, such person shall return to a family member or guardian . a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) shall co-operate with international and non-governmental organisations . decision on forcible return of foreigners and stateless persons specified in part one of this Article may be accompanied by a ban on further entry to Ukraine for three years . decision shall indicate the reasons for making it, the appeal procedure and the consequences of failure to comply therewith . foreigner or stateless person shall be solely responsible for exiting from the territory of Ukraine within the period specified in the decision . foreigners or stateless persons specified in part 20, Article 4 of this Law may be forcibly returned to the country of origin or a third country . a stateless person permanently residing in Ukraine who committed offences outside Ukraine cannot be extradited to another state for criminal prosecution or enforcement of a sentence . provisions of part 2 of this Article shall not apply to persons covered by the Law of Ukraine “On Refugees and Persons in Need of Subsidiary Protection or Asylum” foreigners and stateless persons specified in this Articles shall be prohibited from further entering Ukraine for five years . a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) or state border security authority may forcibly deport foreigners or stateless people . judgment on forcible deportation may be appealed following the procedure determined by law . foreigners and stateless persons who have no legal grounds for staying on the territory of Ukraine, were detained following the determined procedure and are to be forcibly deported from Ukraine . they shall be placed in temporary accommodation centres for foreigners, stateless people illegally staying in Ukraine for a period required for identifying and ensuring forcible deportation . if while staying in the centres a person files an application for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection in Ukraine, he/she a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) shall inform such an authority of the enforcement of the decision on forcible deportation . provision of this Article shall not apply to foreigners and stateless persons covered by the Law of Ukraine “On Refugees and Persons in Need of Subsidiary Protection or Asylum”. foreigners and stateless persons who are to be forcibly deported from Ukraine under a judgment shall compensate for the expenses related to deportation . a foreigner or stateless person shall be notified of the total expenses against receipt, calculated at the prices on the date of settlement . if a foreigner or stateless person refuses to compensate, funds may be recovered from him/her . any cash found with a person in whose respect the court made a judgment on forcible deportation shall be seized under an act . this Law shall enter into force two months after its publication . ensuring that central executive authorities bring their regulatory acts in line with this law . ensuring a strict adherence to the provisions of the law by the ukranian authorities .