this Law establishes basic legal, organisational and financial principles of operation for higher education system . it provides conditions for strengthening co-operation of government authorities and businesses with the institutions of higher education based on the autonomy of the latter . combining education with science and production aims to train competitive human assets for high-technology and innovative development of country . higher military educational institution – a state-property institution of higher education that trains cadets (trainees, students) adjuncts at certain higher education levels for further service in the positions of officer (sergeant, sergeant major) or commanding staff . ECTS – credit transfer and accumulation system used in the European Higher Education Area for the purpose of providing, recognising, confirming the qualifications and educational components . qualification – an official result of assessment and recognition obtained when an authorised institution determines that a person has achieved the competencies (learning results) in accordance with the higher education standards . ECTS credit is a measurement unit for the amount of academic load on higher education applicant required to achieve certain (expected) learning results . educational programmes may determine a single specialisation within its scope or presuppose no specialisation . regional order for higher education – means meeting the needs of the state or regional economy and society in qualified personnel . student-centred studies – an approach to organising the educational process that presupposes: encouraging higher education applicants to play the role of autonomous and responsible entities . a temporarily displaced institution of higher education (scientific institution) is an institution that changed its location based on its founder's (founders') decision . a state policy on higher education shall be defined by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine and implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the rights of the institution to autonomy under this Law may not be restricted by other laws or regulatory acts. the state policy on higher education shall be formed and implemented through a harmonious interaction between the national education, science, art, business systems and the state . the autonomy for an institution of higher education generates the need for self-organisation and self-regulation that are open to criticism . a balanced structure and volume for training higher educated specialists based on the needs of a person, interests of the state and employers . the right to higher education shall be guaranteed regardless of age, citizenship, place of residence, gender, skin colour, nationality, origin, health status, attitude to religion, criminal record, as well as other circumstances . citizens of Ukraine shall be free to choose the institution of higher education, the form of obtaining the higher education and speciality . citizens of Ukraine shall be entitled to obtain free of charge higher education in another speciality at the state and municipal institutions of higher education . foreign citizens and persons without citizenship, including foreign Ukrainians permanently residing in Ukraine, persons recognised as refugees and persons in need of additional protection . obtaining higher education at each level presupposes successful completion of an educational programme . a person shall be entitled to obtain a junior bachelor degree, provided that he/she has complete general secondary education . master is an educational degree obtained at the second level of higher education . master's educational scientific programme must include a research component of at least 30% . doctor of philosophy degree shall be granted by a one-time specialised academic council . doctor of philosophy is an educational creative degree obtained at the third level of higher education . the first stage for obtaining a doctor of arts degree can be practical assistantship . attestation is the ascertainment of compliance of learning results (scientific or creative work) a person obtaining a junior bachelor, bachelor or master degree shall be attested by an examination commission . the institution of higher education shall grant a relevant higher education degree and assign an appropriate qualification . a decision on granting a high education degree may be cancelled if a higher education applicant has breached academic integrity . dissertations of persons obtaining a doctor of philosophy degree shall be published on the official website of the relevant institution of higher education or scientific institution . discovering the facts of academic plagiarism, fabrication or falsification in the dissertation defended by an applicant shall be a ground for cancellation . academic supervisor shall be deprived of the right to participate in training and attestation of applicants for a doctor of philosophy degree for two years . chairman and members of the one-time specialised academic council where this dissertation was defended and official opponents who provided positive opinions for the dissertation . a document on higher education shall be issued to a person who has successfully completed the relevant educational programme . a document on higher education shall be issued by an institution of higher education only for the educational programme accredited under this Law . the list of mandatory information that must be provided in the document shall be stipulated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the list of knowledge branches and specialities shall be elaborated on the basis of the international standard classification of education . educational programmes that presuppose the assignment of professional qualifications must ensure compliance with the relevant professional standards . higher education standard is a set of requirements for higher education programmes . higher education standards shall be elaborated for each higher education level within each speciality . they shall be used to determine and evaluate the quality of higher education . standards for the specialities needed to access the additionally regulated professions may contain additional requirements for admission rules . higher education standards for each speciality shall be elaborated by the central executive authority for education and science and approved by it . higher education system shall consist of: 1) the institutions of higher education of all property forms; 2) the higher education levels and degrees . central executive authority for education and science shall: 1) elaborate the strategy and programmes for the development of higher education . it shall: 2) monitor and analyse the needs of the domestic labour market, make proposals on the volume and directions of the state support for training higher educated specialists . the authority shall: 3) ensure the operation of the unified state electronic database on education; 4) conduct licensing of higher educational activities . attestation board shall consider and make decisions on deprivation of academic titles . national agency for higher education quality assurance shall approve higher education standards . one-time specialised academic council for granting a doctor of philosophy degree shall be considered valid if there is no decision to suspend it . government authorities in charge of the institutions of higher education shall participate in implementation of the state policy on higher education, science, professional training . elaborate provision on exercising the right to academic mobility and submit it for approval to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the institution of higher theological education shall be administered taking into account the peculiarities of its activities . government authorities in charge of higher military educational institutions may establish special requirements . the acts stipulated in Clauses 6 and 7 of this Part shall be approved in co-ordination . letters, directives, guidelines and other documents issued by executive authorities are not considered regulatory acts . the central executive authority for education and science shall establish a scientific and methodical council . the council shall elaborate methodology and guidelines for the development of educational activity standards and higher education standards . commissions shall consist of persons having academic degrees in the relevant knowledge branch or professional experience in the branch of at least 10 years . the powers of the founder (founders) to administer the institution of higher education shall be determined by this and other laws of Ukraine, as well as by the institution's statute . internal quality assurance system shall presuppose procedures and measures . external system shall ensure efficiency of processes and procedures used to internally assure the quality of educational activities and quality of higher education . the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance is a permanent collegial body . the agency shall form the requirements for higher education quality assurance system . it shall elaborate provisions on accreditation of educational programmes . the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance shall annually prepare and publish a report on higher education quality in Ukraine and its compliance with the objectives of sustainable innovative development of the society . the national agency shall consist of twenty-three persons appointed by the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine . 7) has been added to the Unified State Register of persons to whom the provisions of the Law of Ukraine “On Purification of Power” have been applied . the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance may not include members of the Competition Committee, heads and deputy heads of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine . international representatives can take part via electronic video communication . information on the meetings of the Competition Committee shall be published on the official website . the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance shall engage international experts . a decision of the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance may be appealed by a higher educational institution in accordance with the procedure determined by the agency, which shall be made public . national agency for higher education quality assurance shall make a reasonable decision based on the consideration of the appeal . the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance shall be a non-profit organisation . the activities of the agency shall be funded from state budget funds . decisions on all matters shall be made by a majority of the full branch expert council . the amount of funds from the state budget to support the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance, including the amount for its staff's salaries, shall be established annually by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . an independent entity for higher education quality evaluation and assurance is a non-governmental organisation accredited by the national agency . licensees and license holders must ensure compliance with the licensing terms approved in accordance with the law . a decision on issuing or denying a license for educational activities shall be made within 35 working days after the licensing authority receives an application . the licensed scope shall determine the maximum total number of higher education applicants . the decision to cancel the license shall be made within 15 working days after the grounds for license cancellation appear or are identified . repeated breach of licensing terms is a new breach of at least one licensing term mentioned in the order on eliminating the breaches . if the license is cancelled in accordance with Clauses 1, 3–5, 7, 8 of this Part, the institution of higher education shall forfeit the right to conduct all types of higher educational activities . the licensing authority shall make a decision to narrow the educational activities within 15 days after the grounds are identified . license re-issuance is a change of information in the unified state register of legal entities, individual entrepreneurs and public associations . a license for educational activities shall be re-issued without licensing procedure . an institution of higher education wishing to accredit its educational programme must submit a written application and documents confirming compliance . the national agency for higher education quality Assurance shall issue a certificate to the institution within three working days after making a decision on accreditation . the template of the accreditation certificate and the procedure of its re-issuance, granting, keeping and registration shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the certificate shall confirm the compliance of the educational programme provided by the institution of higher education with the higher education standard . accreditation certificates issued by foreign accreditation agencies or higher education quality assurance agencies shall be recognised . main objectives of the institution of higher education shall be as follows: ensuring that higher education applicants obtain appropriate degrees in their chosen specialities . an institution may be a founder (co-founder) of other legal entities operating within its fields of educational, scientific, production and innovative activities. institutions of higher education with the state, municipal and private property forms shall have equal rights to conduct educational, scientific and other activities . institutions may establish educational, educational scientific and educational scientific production complexes, science parks and be part of a consortium . a university is an institution of higher education that conducts innovative educational activities . a college is an educational institution whose volume of trained applicants with bachelor and/or junior bachelor degree is at least 30% of the total licensed volume . article 29. National Institution of Higher Education is an honorary status and shall be granted for a significant contribution to higher education, science and culture . the research university status shall be granted to the institution of higher education for five years . the decision on the establishment, reorganisation or liquidation of the institution shall be made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . a research university is an institution that combines education, science and innovation . reorganisation or liquidation of the institution of higher education shall not breach the rights and interests of persons studying at this institution . foreign individuals and legal entities, as well structural units of foreign institutions may be established on the territory of Ukraine upon permission of the central executive authority for education and science . institutions of higher education in poland have a number of tasks to carry out . these include: establishing equivalence for bachelor, master, doctor of philosophy/doctor of arts degrees . they also have to conduct financial, economic and other activities in accordance with the legislation . the structure of the institution of higher education, the status and functions of its structural units shall be determined by the institution's statute and provisions on the relevant structural units . faculties, departments and libraries shall provide training for at least 200 full-time higher education applicants . a faculty is a structural unit incorporating at least three departments and/or laboratories . department is a basic structural unit of an institution of higher education (its branches, institutes, faculties) it is the main place of employment for at least five scientific-pedagogical staff members . department may include scientific, educational scientific, research, scientific production and design institutes . institutions of higher education that train health care specialists or provide their postgraduate education may establish clinical bases of medical educational institutions, university clinics and hospitals . a territorially separated structural unit is not a legal entity and shall operate on the basis of a provision approved by the institution's head . territorially separate structural units shall not conduct educational activities according to their own educational programmes . a military institute as a unit of the institution of higher education may incorporate faculties and military college . a university, academy, institute may have a training unit which trains cadets (trainees, students) for further service . the decision on the establishment and liquidation of the military educational unit shall be made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the head of the institution of higher education shall be responsible for the institution's educational, scientific, scientific-technical and innovative activities . the head may delegate part of his/her powers to the deputies and heads of structural units in accordance with the statute . retired head of the institution of higher education, who has held this position for at least 10 consecutive years, may be appointed as advisor to the institution's head . the faculty head must have an academic degree and/or academic (honorary) title that usually corresponds to the specialisation of the faculty (educational scientific institute) department head must have an academic degree and/or academic (honorary) title that corresponds to the specialisation of the department . head of the institution of higher education shall conclude a contract with the department head . department head shall ensure organisation of educational process, implementation of curricula and programmes . the academic council at the institution of higher education shall be headed by its chairman . it shall consist of the institution's head, deputy heads, heads of faculties, academic secretary, library director, chief accountant . at least 75% of academic council members must be scientific, scientific-pedagogical staff . members of the supervisory board shall be entitled to participate in the work of the higher collegial public self-government body at the institution of higher education . they may also make relevant recommendations and proposals which must be considered by the institution's head . the institution may have academic councils at its structural units with the powers determined by the academic council . the higher collegial public self-government body at the institution of higher education is the general meeting (conference) of the labour collective, including elected student (cadet) representatives . the supervisory board may recall the institution's head on the grounds stipulated by the legislation, institution’s statute and contract . the public self-government body at the educational scientific institute (faculty) is the meeting (conference) of the institute's labour collective . at least 75% of the delegates (members) must be scientific, scientific-pedagogical staff . meetings (conferences) of educational process participants shall be convened at least once a year . student self-government is the right and opportunity for students (cadets) to decide on the matters of education and everyday life . activities shall be guided by the legislation, as well as by the statute and provision . cadet groups may operate at the level of a course, speciality, campus, structural unit of the institution of higher education. student self-government bodies may have various forms (parliament, senate, student leader's board, student dean's council, etc.) students (cadets) may be dismissed from their positions based on the results of the students' general secret ballot . a student's participation in a body may be terminated upon termination of his/her studies . student self-government body is a general meeting (conference) of students (cadets) it determines the structure and powers of representative, executive and audit bodies . funds determined by an academic council in the amount of at least 0.5% of institution's revenue . the amount of monthly membership fee per one person may not exceed 1% of the subsistence level established by the law . the funds of student self-government bodies shall be used to fulfil their tasks and exercise their powers . institutions of higher education shall have scientific societies of students (cadets, trainees), postgraduate students, doctoral students and young scientists . a scientific society of students (cadets, trainees), postgraduate students, doctoral students and young scientists . the head of the institution of higher education shall comprehensively facilitate the creation of appropriate working conditions for the society . a candidate for the head of the institution of higher education must be fluent in the state language . a person may not be elected, appointed to the position of the head (including acting head) if he/she has been declared incapable or partially capable by a court judgment . the head of the institution of higher education shall be elected through secret ballot for five years as stipulated by this Law and the institution's statute . the total number of persons entitled to participate in the elections must be at least 75% of the number of people entitled to vote . if none of two or more electable persons received more than 50% of votes, the second election round shall be held on the seventh calendar day after the first round . the head of the institution of higher education may be dismissed by the founder (founders) or their authorised body (person) a proposal on recalling the head may be submitted to the institution's supervisory or academic council . a new competition to replace the head shall be announced within a week after establishing the election results . the procedure for appointing the heads of the institutions of higher theological education is regulated by their statutes (provisions) the same person may be the head of a faculty (educational scientific institute) for 10 years . applicants shall be admitted to the institutions of higher education on a competitive basis . competition procedure shall ensure observance of human rights to education . citizens shall be entitled to obtain free of charge higher education at state and municipal educational institutions . military conscripts drafted during mobilisation for the special period may participate in the competition . admission to education for junior bachelor or bachelor (master of medicine, pharmacy or veterinary) degree shall be based on the complete general secondary education . persons residing on the temporarily occupied territory of donetsk and luhansk regions, along the armed conflict line, and the city of sevastopol, shall be admitted to the institutions of higher education . peculiarities of admitting the persons mentioned in Paragraph 5, Part 4 of this Article shall be defined by the Terms and Conditions of Eligibility for Higher Education . the competitive score shall be calculated as the sum of: the scores for each certificate, the average score in the certificate on complete general secondary education . the institution of higher education aiming to receive the state order for training junior bachelors or bachelors (masters in medicine, pharmacy or veterinary) shall submit its Admission Rules to the unified state electronic database on education in accordance with the applicable procedure . applicants shall be ranked based on the competitive score in each speciality . foreign citizens and persons without citizenship shall be admitted to accredited educational programmes . a person may enter the institution of higher education to obtain a master degree on the basis of a bachelor or master degree in a different speciality. admission to the institutions of higher education shall be based on the principles of objectivity and transparency . the state shall provide targeted support for obtaining higher education in the following forms: full or partial education funding from the state and local budgets; discounted long-period loans to pay for education . terms and conditions of eligibility for higher education shall not be considered a regulatory act . independent external evaluation is the evaluation of learning results obtained by a person at a certain educational level . the central executive authority for education and science may decide to decide to use external evaluation for attestation . independent external evaluation of learning results achieved at a certain higher education level may be used for admission to higher education and for attestation of higher education applicants . the general procedure and involvement of pedagogical, scientific, scientific staff and other specialists shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . independent external evaluation of learning results shall be free of charge for persons completing field-specific secondary education . independent evaluation shall be conducted by a state-authorised institution (organisation), provision on which shall be approved as stipulated by the legislation . the content of certification tasks shall be treated as restricted information from the moment they are elaborated . a person expelled from the institution of higher education before completing the educational programme shall receive an academic certificate . higher education applicants conscripted to military service due to mobilisation shall be guaranteed that their place of studies and scholarship are retained . the entrance examinations, if they are stipulated by this Law, shall be conducted in the state language or, upon request, in a language used for teaching . higher education applicants shall be renewed and transferred taking into account the requirements of relevant educational programmes . the main forms of higher education shall be as follows: institutional (full-time (day, evening), part-time, remote, network . a person may obtain higher education in various forms or a combination of them . full-time (day, evening) form of higher education presupposes learning classes and practical training for at least 30 weeks during the academic year . remote form of education is an individualised educational process organised through indirect interaction between distant educational process participants . network form of high education allows mastering of an educational programme through interaction between educational activity participants on a contractual basis . dual education means dedicating 25–60% of the total educational programme to contractual on-the-job training at enterprises, establishments and organisations . educational process at the institutions of higher education shall have the following forms: 1) learning classes; 2) independent work; 3) practical training; 4) control measures . the heads of enterprises, establishments and organisations must ensure appropriate conditions for on-the-job practising . staff of clinical bases of the institutions of higher education, university clinics and university hospitals are persons who are engaged in medical, pharmaceutical or veterinary activities . academic titles of senior researcher; 2) associate professor; 3) professor . main positions of scientific-pedagogical staff shall be as follows: head (rector, president, chief, director), deputy head (vice-rector), his/her deputies whose activities are directly related to the educational or scientific process . the main positions of pedagogical staff at the institutions of higher education shall be as follows: 1) teacher; 2) methodologist . attestation results shall be used to determine the staff's compliance with their positions . working time of scientific-pedagogical staff shall be 36 hours per week (reduced working hours) maximum academic load per one salary of a pedagogic employee may not exceed 600 hours per academic year . staff members have the right to exercise academic freedom, academic mobility, professional honour and dignity . staff at institutions of higher education shall enjoy all the rights stipulated by the legislation . staff are obliged to ensure high scientific-theoretical and methodical level of teaching the educational disciplines . they must also instill in them a love for Ukraine, educate them in the spirit of Ukrainian patriotism . staff at institutions of higher education shall be guaranteed appropriate working conditions, professional development, organisation of everyday life, recreation and medical care . postgraduate education is specialised refinement of education and professional training of a person by deepening, expanding and updating his/her professional knowledge, skills and abilities . staff may have professional development and practical training in Ukraine and abroad . institution of higher education shall ensure professional development and practical training . positions of pedagogical staff members may be filled by other persons without competition . cadet status may be granted to certain categories of persons studying at non-military institutions as stipulated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . article 62. rights of persons studying at the institutions of higher education 1. have safe and non-harmful conditions for studies, work and everyday life . have access to libraries, museums, information funds, educational, scientific and sports bases free of charge . students of certain higher education level shall be entitled to select disciplines from other higher education levels upon approval from the head of the relevant faculty or department . the period of full-time studies at the institutions of higher education as well as postgraduate, doctoral, internship, residency studies included in their pension insurance record . social allowance shall be granted to students (cadets) of the institutions of higher education as stipulated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . increase in academic scholarships shall be established for students studying in high-demand specialities (specialisations) a list of such specialities and the increase amount shall be determined by the cabinet of ministers . higher education applicants studying on a full-time basis shall be entitled to reduced public transport fares . graduates from the institutions of higher education shall be free to choose a place of employment . the central executive authority for education and science shall monitor the employment of graduates . Article 65. Scientific, scientific-technical, artistic and innovative activities at the institutions of higher education shall be an integral part of educational activities . activities shall be conducted for the purpose of integrating scientific, educational and production activities in the higher education system . institutions of higher education and scientific institutions of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, national branch academies of sciences shall be integrated for the purpose of elaborating priority scientific programmes, conducting research, designing experimental products, etc. by joining the human, financial, technical and organisational resources in accordance with the legislation . Article 67. Organisation of Scientific, Scientific-Technical and Innovative Activities at the Institutions of Higher Education . scientific, scientific-technical and innovative activities at the institutions of higher education shall be conducted in accordance with the legislation . central executive authority for education and science shall elaborate proposals on budget funding . research conducted at the expense of the state and local budgets shall be funded separately from funding the educational activities . institutions of higher education may conduct scientific, scientific-technical and innovative activities . rights of educational process participants shall be acquired, protected and asserted . expenditures for legal protection of objects of intellectual property rights shall be covered from institutions' own revenues . material-technical base includes buildings, structures, land, communications, equipment, vehicles, tied housing and other material values . the founders of the institution of higher education shall exercise their powers to manage the state property within the higher education system in accordance with the legislation . own revenues received as payment for services provided within educational, scientific and education-production activities, as well as charitable contributions and grants . buildings, structures and premises must meet accessibility requirements . land plots shall be allotted for permanent use to the institutions of higher education . institution may establish a permanent fund (endowment) and manage the revenues from its use . state institutions of higher education shall be funded from the state budget . Article 71. Formation and Placement of the State Order for Higher Education . the state order for higher education may be amended from time to time . indicators of the state order for training higher educated specialists shall be formed for every higher education level and speciality . the total volume of the order for specialists with junior bachelor, bachelor (master of medicine, pharmacy and veterinary) degrees in the current year shall be at least 51% of the number of graduates from secondary schools . ensuring the defense of Ukraine, state security and protection of the state border . funding from the state budget for training specialists in required specialities shall be established in the amount necessary to ensure training of at least 180 students per every 10 thousand people . paid educational and other services may be provided by the state and municipal institutions of higher education . paid educational and other services may be provided by the same structural units that conduct the educational process under the state order . the cost of the entire training for a relevant higher education degree or professional development shall be set by the institutions of higher education in the national currency . institutions of higher education shall participate in international co-operation in the following directions: 1) participation in bilateral and multilateral interstate and interuniversity programmes aimed at the exchange of students, postgraduate students, doctoral students, pedagogical, scientific and scientific staff . the state shall take measures to develop and strengthen mutually beneficial international co­operation in higher education and science . institutions shall establish direct relations with foreign scientific institutions and enterprises, international organisations, foundations, etc. institutions of higher education shall conduct foreign economic activities in accordance with the legislation by concluding contracts with foreign legal entities and individuals . public control in higher education is the right of society and individual citizens, higher education employees, students, trade unions, employer organisations and their associations . decisions and activities in the field of higher education, except for restricted information, shall be open . information on decision-making procedures and results must be made public . the last admission for obtaining higher education at a junior specialist educational qualification level shall be held in 2019 . this Law shall be enacted in one month after its publication . a diploma on higher education at a junior specialist educational qualification level (primary higher education) shall be equated to a degree on . higher educational institutions of I–II accreditation levels shall bring their type and statute in line with this Law within two years after obtaining the license for training junior bachelors . the following requirements for the volume of training higher education applicants with bachelor and/or junior bachelor degree shall apply . training of candidates and doctors of sciences initiated before 1 September 2016 shall be carried out by the institutions of higher education and scientific institutions . the candidate of science academic degree shall be equated to the doctor of philosophy academic degree . after enacting this Law, the institutions with the status of national or research institutions shall retain the relevant status . colleges licensed to train specialists with a junior bachelor or bachelor degree shall include the relevant positions of scientific-pedagogical staff into their staff lists . until 1 January 2016, the state order for training specialists with bachelor (master and specialist of medicine, pharmacy or veterinary) degree shall be placed prior to the admission campaign at the institutions of higher education . provisions of Articles 29, 42 and 72 of this Law shall apply only to the institutions of higher education that have the status of state, municipal and private institutions . a candidate for the head of a college, its faculty or department must hold an academic (honorary) title and academic degree . land plots of state and municipal property, which are leased to institutions, shall be allotted to them for permanent use by the relevant executive authorities . the admission quota at the institutions of higher education for persons residing on the temporarily occupied territory of donetsk and luhansk regions shall be established by the central executive authority for education and science . the listed below legislative acts of Ukraine shall be amended as follows: a) in Part 2 of Article 92 to add Clause “e” that reads: “e) institutions of high education regardless of property form”; b) in Paragraph 6, Article 42 of the Law of Ukraine “On employment of temporary relocated institutions of higher education shall retain the status of national institutions . standards for the number of students per one position in scientific-pedagogical staff shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . central executive authorities in charge of such institutions shall establish fixed volumes of the state order for training higher educated specialists . procedure for state recognition of documents on higher theological education, academic degrees and academic titles . establishment and operation of postgraduate studies, doctoral studies and specialised academic councils . ensure establishment of the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance . provide opportunities for additional training in Ukrainian studies for residents of the temporarily occupied territory . national agency for higher education quality assurance shall form unified list of specialities . current specialisations are developed and approved directly by the institutions of higher education . Founders of educational institutions shall be recommended to bring types and statutes in line with this Law within two years .