the law establishes the legal and organizational principles of city planning activity . it is aimed at ensuring sustainable development of territories with due consideration of state, community and private interests . consulting engineer shall mean a specialist with a qualification level, confirmed by the personnel certification body . territory planning and development is an activity of state bodies, bodies of local self-government, legal entities and individuals . it entails: 1) forecasting territory development; 2) ensuring rational displacement of population and determining directions of sustainable territory development . zoning is a city planning document defining conditions and restrictions for the use of territory for city planning needs within defined areas . determining development regimes for territories on which city planning activity is envisaged . city planning documentation shall be elaborated in hard copy and electronic media . documents shall be subject to strategic environmental assessment . if an international treaty of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine establishes regulations other than those stipulated by this Law, the regulations of the treaty shall apply . construction objects shall be houses, buildings, structures of any purpose, their complexes and parts . programmes for the development of regions and localities, programmes of economic, social and cultural development must be harmonized with the city planning documentation of the appropriate level . management of city planning and architectural and construction control shall be carried out by means of: 1) planning of territories at the state, regional and local levels; 2) monitoring the state of elaboration and implementation of city plan documentation . control over compliance with legislation in the field of city planning at all levels . executive bodies for state architectural and construction control of village, settlement, city councils . in relation to objects with minor (CC1), medium (CC2) and significant (CC3) consequences . if village, settlement, city councils have not formed executive bodies on the matters of the state architectural and construction control, the powers of such bodies shall be performed by the central executive authority . within three days after the appointment of the head of the structural division, the bodies responsible for city planning, architectural, construction control and supervision shall be informed . decisions on the territory planning and development shall be taken by village, settlement and city councils . territorial planning works at the state level shall be financed from the state budget . territory planning works of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regions, districts, localities, city districts, quarters and city planning monitoring shall be funded from local budgets or other sources . by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, schemes shall be elaborated for planning certain parts of the territory of Ukraine . the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the relevant regional councils shall be the customers of the schemes . territorial planning at the regional level shall be carried out through the elaboration of schemes for planning territory of the autonomous republic of crimea . territorial planning at the local level shall be carried out by elaborating and approving general schemes of localities, territory zoning plans and detailed territory plans . updating of city planning documentation shall provide for: 1) Updating of the cartographic and geodetic framework; 2) updating the spatial oriented information in the state system of coordinates on hard copy and electronic media . if a change in the social and economic indicators on the basis of which the schemes for planning territory have been elaborated, the Council of Minister general scheme of a locality shall be the main type of city planning documentation . a zoning plan of the locality may be developed as part of the general scheme . for localities on the list of historical inhabited areas of Ukraine, general schemes may be combined with detailed plans for the entire territory . the decision to develop a general scheme shall be taken by the relevant village, settlement and city council . the general scheme of a locality may not be amended more than once every five years . amendments to the general scheme of a locality may be made by the local government . only general city schemes shall be subject to expert analysis of city planning documentation . territorial zoning plan shall define conditions and restrictions for the use of the territory for city planning purposes within certain areas . a detailed territory plan within a locality shall specify the provisions of the general scheme of the locality and define the planning organization and development of part of the territory . the territorial zoning plan shall be approved at the plenary sessions of the village, settlement and city council within 30 days of its submission . a detailed territory plan of outside locality areas shall be developed in accordance with the territory (part of the territory) plan of the district and/or region . a land management project may be developed to regularize this territory for city planning purposes . the composition, content and procedure for its approval and development shall be determined by the central executive authority responsible for shaping state policy . the materials of the detailed territory plan may not contain information with restricted access or be restricted in access . the model regulation on architectural and city planning councils shall be approved by the central executive authority responsible for shaping state policy on city planning . amendments to the plan may be permitted provided that they are in accordance with the general scheme of the locality and the territory zoning plan . review results of the draft city planning documentation by the architectural and city planning council shall be taken into account in the further development and approval of such projects . the approval at the local level of city planning documents referred to in part 1 of this Article shall be prohibited without a public discussion . no public hearings shall be held on issues of expropriation for public use . customers of city planning documentation shall ensure public access . public proposals must be submitted within the terms set for public discussion . the number of members from the public shall not be less than 50 per cent and shall not exceed 70 per cent of the total commission membership . the conciliation commission shall, within two weeks of its creation, consider disputable issues recorded in the minutes of the public hearings . city planning cadastre shall be state or communal system for storing and using geospatial data . data shall be used to meet information needs of state authorities, local governments, individuals and legal entities . information shall be open and accessible to the public, except for information related to restricted access . the procedure for maintenance and structure of the city planning cadastre shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the electronic system shall provide for the creation, review, dispatch, acceptance, collection, entry, processing, consideration, storage, protection, record-keeping and provision of information in the field of construction . it shall use classifiers, directories, dictionaries and databases maintained by the central executive authority . technical administrator of the electronic system shall be a state unitary enterprise . the technical administrator shall take measures for the creation and maintenance of electronic system software . measures defined in paragraph two of this part shall be implemented by technical administrator in accordance with this Law, the laws of Ukraine . electronic system shall be created using software that ensures compatibility and electronic real-time communication with other electronic information systems and networks . electronic communication between the electronic system and the unified state register of court judgments shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure established by the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine . data may also be stored in other state bodies, local governments and state enterprises . property rights to the software shall be held by the state through the central executive authority . access to the information contained in the electronic system shall be free of charge . information and documents obtained by means of electronic system software in hard copy and electronic forms shall have equal legal effect . if the applicant identifies an error (error in writing, typing or printing, grammar, arithmetical error) in the information of the electronic system, the entity concerned shall correct the error within one day . state bodies, including the courts, local authorities and their officials, state registrars and notaries, shall receive information free of charge from the electronic system . organization of electronic communication between the state electronic information resources shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers . documents entitling for the preparatory and construction works; Identifiers of construction objects and completed construction objects; documents certifying the acceptance into operation of the completed construction works . information on self-regulating organizations in the sphere of architectural activities and the delegation them the authority to carry out professional certification . the electronic system may provide for the creation, collection, accumulation, processing, protection and recording of other information specified by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . register of construction activities shall provide for creation of the following electronic documents . inventory records, technical inventory materials, technical passports of works under construction . other electronic documents may be created using the electronic system . documents specified in this part shall become effective as soon as they are affixed with the qualified electronic signature of the person who created them . documents/actions specified in this part shall be created/performed by means of entering a relevant record in the Register of Construction Activities with a registration number in this register . documents containing information constituting a state secret must be created in hard copy form in compliance with the requirements of the Law of Ukraine "On state secret" information on the documents specified in clauses 3, 9 and 10 of part two of this article shall be transferred to the unified state register of legal entities, individual entrepreneurs and public associations . customers, licensees, expert organizations that examine the project documentation for the construction of objects shall be liable under the law for entering false information in the Register of Construction Activities . the electronic system provides for electronic communication between individuals and legal entities, state bodies, local governments, administrative service centres . a self-regulating organization in the area of architectural activities is established . the organization is responsible for professional certification of individual works (services) a real-time mode of payment is used to pay for services provided . the e-cabinet may provide other services and operations specified by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the Procedure for maintenance of the electronic system . it is possible to submit applications to the competent city planning and architectural bodies, the state architectural and construction control and supervision bodies . users of the e-cabinet shall be customers, licensing authority, licensees, expert organizations . connection and access to the electronic cabinet shall be free of charge . legal entities and individual entrepreneurs - customers of housing construction units shall upload the photographs of these objects . access to project documentation for the construction of objects shall be carried out in accordance with part ten of Article 22-1 hereof . city planning monitoring shall mean the observation system, analysis of implementation of city planning documentation, evaluation and forecasting of the status and changes . the portal of the electronic system may provide access to other information and documents defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . results of city planning monitoring shall be continuously recorded in the city planning cadastre . a change in the functional purpose of territories shall not entail the termination of the title or use of a land plots . transfer (allocation) of land from the lands of the state or communal ownership is not permitted if the land plot is: a) located in the exclusion zone or the zone of unconditional (mandatory) resettlement . change of land plot's designated purpose that does not conform to the territory zoning plan and/or the detailed territory plan shall be prohibited . authorities responsible for the city planning and architecture shall ensure transparency, availability and completeness of information on the presence in the territory of the relevant administrative and territorial unit of the state and communal land not provided for use . territorial development regime of the territories defined for the city planning purposes shall not entail the termination of the title or use of land plots . the right to develop a land plot shall be exercised by its owner or user, subject to the use of the land plot in accordance with the requirements of this Law . documents to obtain administrative and other construction services shall be submitted to the provider of the respective service chosen by the applicant . documents shall be filed to receive, Electronically only through an e-cabinet or other state information system . documents shall meet the following requirements: 1) the document shall be in the state language; 2) the text of documents shall not contain erasures or additions, crossed out words or other corrections not stipulated therein, spelling and arithmetic mistakes . construction design documentation in electronic form shall be certified by a qualified electronic signature of the customer and the general designer (designer) experts who conducted the examination and the head of the relevant expert organization shall confirm the examination of the design documentation . if the applicant is a foreigner or stateless person, the identity document shall be a national, diplomatic or service passport of the foreigner . information and documents sent electronically by applicants shall be deemed received on the day they are delivered . results of administrative and other services defined by this Law, using an electronic system, upon request of the applicant, shall be provided in hard copy form . court judgements entailing changes in the information in the electronic system may be sent . identifier of construction object (completed construction object) shall be a unique set of data (sequence of characters) automatically assigned to the construction object or a completed construction object by the software of the Register of Construction Activities . shall be assigned to: a house, building, structure (including complex); constituent parts of the house building and structure: apartments, garages, parking spaces, other residential and non-residential premises . the identifier of the construction object (completed construction object) shall be the same, except in the cases prescribed in this Law . if a completed construction object is divided or accessed, the identifer of the object shall be cancelled . the address of the immovable property object (hereinafter referred to as the address) shall be a unique structured set of requisites used to identify the object and determine its land location . the identifier of the construction object is assigned prior to the elaboration of the design documentation . the procedure for assigning addresses to immovable property objects shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the address shall be given to construction objects, houses, buildings, constructions, apartments, garage compartments, parking spaces, other residential and non-residential premises . address details shall be: 1) Name of the state (ukraine); 2) Name of administrative and territorial autonomy within Ukraine — for objects located in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea . address details of the immovable property object referred to in clause 10 of part four of this Article shall be determined by the customer in the design documentation for the construction of the object . in cities with district divisions, upon decision of city councils, the powers to assign, change, adjust and cancel addresses may be delegated to the executive bodies of district councils . address assigning body shall, within five working days from the date of receipt of the notification, take a decision on the assignment of an address . the address shall be deemed to be assigned from the day on the information about its assignment is entered in the Register of Construction Activities . customer shall, in its communication of such changes, indicate the need to make adjustment (change, assignment, cancellation) of the address. address adjustment decision shall be communicated to the applicant as specified in Article 26-1 of this Law on the date on which the information on the adjustment is entered in the Register of Construction Activities . the adoption of any additional management documents for the assignment of an address other than those specified in this Article shall not be required . documents to change the address of an immovable property object shall be submitted as specified in Article 26-1 of this Law . a technical passport for the newly created object must also be submitted . documents must be submitted to the u.s. tax authorities in the form specified in article 26-2 of the law . address assigning body shall, within five working days of receipt of the application to change an address of a completed construction object . decision to change address/not to change the address shall contain the identifier of the completed construction objects . information on change of an address/refusal to change a address of the immovable property object shall be communicated to the applicant as specified in Article 26-1of this Law . the address to unauthorised construction objects shall be assigned in accordance with parts four, five, seven-ten of Article 26-5of this Law . the applicant shall have the right to apply to the relevant local state administration with an application on an assignment, change or cancellation of the address . address assigning body shall receive additional documents and information necessary for taking a decision on assignment, change, adjustment of address . electronic system portal shall enable legal entities and individuals to search for information on the assignment (change) of address, including a copy of such decisions . decision on refusal shall additionally contain a reference to the relevant provision (clause, article) of the law . address shall be assigned at the choice of the customer after obtaining the right to carry out the construction works or after the commissioning of the completed construction object . individual (manor) residential building, summer houses and garden cottages being built (built) on a land plot shall not require a decision to assign an address . address assigning body shall be notified in writing to the customer (his/her representative) if the address is assigned prior to the introduction of electronic system and after it has been assigned, project documentation has been adjusted in a way which may affect the assignment of an address of the construction object . address assigning body shall, within five working days of the receipt of the application, take a decision to assign or adjust the address . decision to adjust an address shall additionally contain the preliminary address of the completed construction object . refusal on any grounds not provided for in this part shall not be permitted . the applicant shall have the right to apply to the relevant local state administration . address shall be assigned, changed or adjusted as specified in Article 26-3of this Law . address to unauthorised construction objects to which a right of ownership is recognized by a court judgement . the address of an individual (manor) residential building, summer houses and garden cottages being built on a land plot shall not require a decision to assign an address . application on the assignment of an address to a construction object or a completed construction object must indicate name, first name and patronymic of an applicant . copy of the document certifying the right of ownership or use of the land plot whereon the object is being constructed (constructed) if the project documentation is adjusted after the address has been assigned which may affect the assignment of the address of a new construction object, the customer shall apply to the relevant address assigning body with the application to adjust the address . the decision to assign/refuse to assign an address shall contain a location of the object under the construction permit document . application submitted by a person other than the customer or his/her representative . application submitted to the address assigning body not authorised to decide on the assignment, change or adjustment of an address in the territory concerned . construction passport defines set of city planning and architectural requirements . passport shall be prepared on that basis of a zoning plan, if any . construction passport shall consist of text and graphic materials . temporary structures for business activities shall be installed temporarily . a document certifying the right to use a land plot may be granted to a private partner or a concessionaire . provided that such land plot (or part thereof) is required to deliver a public-private partnership or concession project . city planning conditions and restrictions shall be provided by the relevant authorised city planning and architecture bodies . a list of construction objects for which the city planning conditions and restrictions are not provided shall be determined by the central executive authority responsible for shaping and implementing state policy on construction, architecture and city planning . grounds for refusal to issue city planning condition and restrictions shall be as follows: 1) failure to submit the documents specified in part three of this Article required to take a decision to issue the conditions . the maximum permissible population density within the residential development of the relevant housing unit (a quarter, a micro-district) minimum distances from the object under design, to the red lines, construction control lines and existing buildings and structures . the city planning conditions and restrictions shall apply until the completion of the construction of the object . technical conditions shall mean a set of conditions and requirements for the engineering of a construction object . technical conditions must be in conformity with the law, contain reliable information and meet reasonable requirements . any changes in the technical conditions may be made only upon the consent of the customer . if the customer is an economic entity which acquired the right to receive support based on the auction results, the technical conditions for the electric power facility generating alternative energy sources, issued to such customer . project documentation for the construction of objects shall be elaborated in accordance with the procedure established by the central executive authority . the results of the environmental impact assessment shall be attached to the design documentation . experts on sanitary and epidemiological welfare of the population, ecology, labor protection, energy saving, fire, man-made, nuclear and radiation safety shall be involved in the expert examination . if an expert organization is found to be inconsistent with the set criteria, such organization shall be excluded from the Register of Construction Activities . design documentation for the construction of objects shall not require the approval of state bodies, local government bodies, their officials or legal entities established by such bodies . design documentation shall specify: 1) the identifier of the construction object (for new construction objects) and 2) the registration number of city planning conditions and restrictions and technical conditions . classes of consequences (liability) of buildings and structures shall be a description of the level of potential threat to the health and lives of people who will permanently or periodically be in the building or outside the building . the class of consequences shall be defined for each object — a building, structure, construction of any purpose, their parts, linear objects of engineering and transportation infrastructure . Objects with the class of high consequences (C3) shall include as follows: monuments of cultural heritage defined in accordance with the Law of Ukraine "On Protection of Cultural Heritage" residential, public or multifunctional buildings measured with a height above 100 metres . integrated territory development can be carried out by means of integrated renovation of quarters of obsolete housing estates . the executive body of the local council, Kyiv and Sevastopol city state administrations shall perform the functions of the customer of the construction directly or may delegate them on a competitive basis to the general contractor (contractor) the owner (user) of the relevant land plot within the limits of such land plot may act as a customer of an integrated development of a territory . construction works which do not require documents authorizing their performance shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . means of unimpeded access of persons with disabilities and other low-mobility groups of the population may be carried out without documents giving the right to perform construction work . the performance of construction works without the relevant document provided for in this article shall be considered as unauthorised construction . the form of notice of the commencement of preparatory work and the procedure for its submission shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the customer shall, in accordance with the law, be liable for the completeness and reliability of the data specified in the notice . if any error (typing error, typographical, grammatical, arithmetical) is identified by the customer, the customer may submit a correction within three working days . the right to carry out preparatory works shall be deemed terminated from the date on which the right is entered/ recorded in the Register of Construction Activities . notice of commencement of preparatories works, change of data in the submitted notice, change in the notice of the commencement – shall be published on the portal of the electronic system . the registration number assigned to the notice shall include the cadastral number of the land plot . the right to carry out preparatory works and construction works shall be provided to the customer and to the general contractor or contractor after submission of the notice of the commencement of construction works . receipt by the customer of any other permitting documents for the performance of construction work shall not be required . the form of notice, the procedure for its submission and form of change in data in the notice submitted shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the customer shall be liable under the law for the completeness and accuracy of the data stated in the notice of the commencement of construction works submitted by him/her . information of termination of the right to commence construction works shall be entered by the state architecture and construction control body in the Register of Construction Activities with a registration number assigned in this register . the right to carry out construction works shall be deemed terminated from the date on which the right is entered/ recorded in the Register of Construction Activities . the connection of the construction object to the engineering networks and structures shall be provided to the customer and the general contractor or contractor after obtaining a permit for construction works . a construction object is deemed to be a completed construction object if it meets the following conditions: 1) the right of ownership or use of the land plot or a copy of the superficies agreement; 2) the a permit to carry out construction works shall be issued using the Register of Construction Activities . a copy of the document certifying the right of ownership of the building or construction, or the consent of its owner (joint owners) shall not be submitted if the state registration of such right has been carried out in the State Register of Property Rights to Immovable Property . in the case of integrated reconstruction of quarters of obsolete housing estates (micro-districts) by order of the state authorities . procedure for issuing and revoking a construction permit shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . grounds for refusal shall be: 1) failure to provide the documents required to take a decision to issue such a permit; 2) incompliance of the submitted documents with the requirements of the law . a decision to issue or revoke a permit to carry out construction works may be considered under the supervision of the central executive authority implementing state policy on state architectural and construction control and supervision . a customer may apply to the cea with a view to taking, within 10 working days, measures relating to the issue of the permit or the refusal to grant it . if an adjustment of the design documentation may affect the assignment of the address of the new construction object, the notice shall specify the need to adjust (change, assign, cancel) the address . the licensing body shall be the central executive authority that implements the state policy on state architectural and construction control . unauthorized construction of an object, the alteration of which is not possible for the purpose to remove a material deviation from the design or to eliminate infringements of the legitimate rights and interests of others, material violation of construction regulations . the state architecture and construction control body shall issue to a person that carried (carries) out such construction, an order for the elimination of violations of the requirements of the law on the city planning, construction regulations and rules . in the event of failure to voluntarily execute the requirements set out in the order within the the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall determine the form of the declaration on readiness of the object for commissioning and the procedure for its submission and registration . completed construction objects shall be commissioned on the basis of the certificate of readiness issued by the state architecture and construction control bodies . the customer shall ensure the control geodetic survey of the completed construction object prior to its commissioning . procedure of electronic interaction between cadastre and unified state electronic system in the area of construction shall be determined by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . act on the readiness of the object for commissioning and the application for the issuance of a certificate, shall specify the new (changed) name of the designated person . declaration on the readiness of the object for commissioning shall be submitted electronically . it shall be registered automatically in real-time mode by the software of the Register of Construction Activities . a decision to register or return a declaration may be considered under the supervision of the central executive authority implementing state policy . refusal to issue a certificate shall be given to the customer within the term provided for its issuance . the operation of completed construction objects which have not been commissioned (if such commissioning is provided for by the law) shall be prohibited . if the customer independently discovers a technical error in the notification on the commencement of preparatory or construction works, the notification or declaration shall be amended . in the event of the entry into force of a judicial judgement on the cancellation of city planning conditions and restrictions, the relevant state architecture and construction control body shall apply to the court . the customer of the construction may resend the notification or submit the declaration in accordance with the requirements established by law . owners or managers of construction objects shall ensure the routine inspection and periodic examination of the commissioned objects . technical inventory of an immovable property object means a set of works for the purpose of determining the actual composition, area, volume, technical condition . the duration of the works and the amount and payment procedure for the technical inventory shall be determined by agreement between the parties . state architectural and construction control shall mean a set of measures aimed at ensuring compliance by customers, designers, contractors and expert organizations . the grounds for an unscheduled inspection shall be the need to verify the validity of the data contained in the notification of the commencement of preparatory works . a technical inventory of immovable property may be concluded electronically through an electronic cabinet . unscheduled inspections on grounds other than those provided for in this article shall be prohibited . preparatory and construction works which do not comply with the requirements of the legislation, construction regulations and rules, city planning conditions and restrictions, approved design or construction permit for the development of a land plot, shall be performed without acquiring the right to exercise it . the state architectural and construction control body shall use information from the electronic system to implement state architecture and construction controls measures . officials of the control bodies shall have the right: 1) to free access to construction objects and to objects subject to compulsory inspection . in cases of detection of violation of the requirements of legislation in the field of city planning, construction regulations and rules, city planning conditions and restrictions, the approved project or construction passport for the development of a land plot . officials of the state architectural and construction control body shall be subject to compulsory state insurance in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . it is prohibited to request from city planning entities any information and documents relating to tax, financial reporting, relating salary payment, cash flows . state architectural and construction supervision means a set of measures aimed at ensuring compliance by authorized bodies of city planning and architecture . the chief inspectors of construction supervision shall have the right to issue binding orders on the elimination of violations of the city planning legislation . suspension of the decision of the object of supervision shall have the effect of suspending, pending the entry into force of a judgement, the performance of preparatory and/or construction works . failure of the state architectural and construction control and supervision body to file a claim to the court for the annulment of decision taken by object of the supervision shall result in the restoration of decision . suspension of decision shall be communicated to the customer by making the relevant information publicly available on the electronic system portal . the chief state inspector for construction supervision shall draw up a protocol in accordance with the Code of administrative offences of Ukraine in regards to an official . information on administrative liability of an official of the object of supervision shall be sent to the head of the relevant local state administration or local self-government body . designs of territory development, land allocation and city planning projects with appropriate conditions and restrictions for land plots development may be approved and used after the entry into force of this Law . basic data for the designing, expert opinions to the design and estimate documentation for the construction of objects, shall be effective within two years . technical conditions for electrical facilities producing electric energy from alternative energy sources issued prior to the date of entry in force of the said Law shall be brought into conformity with the law . parts three and four of Article 24 of this Law shall not, by 1 January 2015, apply to territories where zoning plans or detailed plans have not been approved in accordance with this Law . it shall be prohibited to change further the purpose or owner (user) of a land plot referred to in paragraph one of this clause . state architectural and construction control body shall commission free of charge within 10 working days from the date of submission of the application by the owners (users) of the land plots whereon the objects of construction are located . technical survey of individual (homestead) residential houses, garden and summer houses with a total area of up to 300 square meters inclusive . state architectural and construction control bodies shall operate on the basis of a model regulation on their activity approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . documents, authorising to carry out preparatory and construction works, shall be valid until the completion of construction of objects . the law of Ukraine “On planning and development of territories” shall be declared invalid . “state architectural and construction inspectorate of Ukraine” or its territorial bodies represent the interests of the state in court . clause “g” of Article 3 shall be restated as follows: “g) Mandatory submission of conclusions made by the state environmental expertise”; part two of Article 26 shall be removed; clause “a” of part one of Article 27 shall be taken out . in Article 28: “Construction designs shall be evaluated in accordance with Article 31 of the Law of Ukraine “On the Regulation of City Planning Activities”; clause state expertise on investment programmes (projects) shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . competence of village, settlement and city councils in the field of city planning in respective territories . the respective local council shall form a body for city planning and architecture . local councils shall decide on other matters in the field of city planning in accordance with the law, as well as may delegate matters within their competence to their executive bodies or to the relevant local state administrations . in part two of Article 13: paragraph five shall be removed; in paragraph six the words "the exercise of state control over the use of land designed for city planning needs"; in part three of Article 15 shall be restated as follows: "construction designs shall be evaluated" in Article 41, the words "development and other types of land use" shall be deleted; in clause "b", part one of Article 42 the words “on designs that do not have a positive conclusion” shall be removed . in Article 40 of the Law of Ukraine "On Use of Nuclear Power and Radiation Security" the word "feasibility study and construction, reconstruction, decommissioning, materials", shall be replaced with the word “Materials” . in part one of Article 31: the words "local regulations for development of localities" shall be removed . in part three of Article 43, the words “development and” shall be replaced with "and in cases prescribed by law" in part four of Article 10, part two of Article 26, shall read as follows: "development and approval of an architectural work design"; Article 7 shall be deleted . the design of the architecture work shall be elaborated under the direction or with the obligatory participation of the architect having the relevant qualification certificate . design documentation for the construction of facilities is not subject to approval by the relevant executive authorities, local governments, cultural heritage conservation authorities, state sanitary and epidemiological service . amendments to the approved design are made only with the consent of the author of the design, and in case of deviation from the technical specifications . self-regulatory organisations in the field of architectural activities determine the rules and standards of business and professional activities mandatory for all members of such organisations . powers to conduct professional certification may be delegated to self-regulating organizations in the area of architectural activity . citizens who have passed the professional certification are issued an appropriate qualification certificate . the form of the qualification certificate, the procedure for payment of fees for the performance of professional certification shall be approved by the central executive authority on construction, city planning and architecture . certification of the contractors of works related to the creation of architectural works shall be carried out by the Certification Commission for Architecture and Construction . in part two of Article 26 the words "regional and local construction regulations" shall be removed . in part one of Article 17 shall be supplemented with paragraph five to read as follows: "systematic provision of inaccurate information as part of technical specifications for the engineering support of the construction object" if a natural monopoly entity fails to provide technical conditions for engineering security of construction objects — in the amount of 10,000 times non-taxable minimum income of citizens . the word "construction" shall be deleted from several laws . construction designs shall be evaluated in accordance with the law of Ukraine "On the regulation of city planning activities" land management projects related to the improvement of localities shall be subject to approval . paragraphs eighteen to twenty-three of Article 2 shall be removed . part three and paragraph two of part four of Article 11, the words "and project declaration" and "defined in the project declaration." in Article 16 shall be supplemented with a new part following part one to read as follows: "a bona fide lessee of the land plot provided for the construction and maintenance of the respective property" lessee has a pre-emptive right to enter into the land lease contract for a new term . the lessee must notify the lessor about the intention to renew the contract . provisions of the contract being renewed may be changed with the consent of the parties . an additional agreement to the land lease agreement on its renewal must be concluded by the parties within one month . the refusal, as well as the apparent delay in concluding the additional agreement, may be appealed in court . in paragraph four, part one of Article 1, Article 14, the words "local construction regulations" shall be deleted . a period of simultaneous validity of construction regulations developed on the basis of national technological traditions and construction regulations harmonised with european union regulations (or other construction regulations) is established . justified deviations from the construction regulations that ensure observance with the stipulated safety requirements may be agreed upon by the subject of rationing . part one of Article 11 shall be supplemented with the following sentence: “international, regional and national (state) construction regulations, standards of other states are applied in Ukraine in accordance with international treaties of Ukraine” . clause 42 of Article 4 of Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 7-93 of 21 January 1993 “On state duty” shall be read as follows: “42) State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine and its territorial bodies”; . within three months of the introduction of this Law: