public information means information reflected and documented by any means and information media . public information shall be open, except for the cases determined by the law . this Law shall not apply to relations on obtaining information by the public authorities during the performance of their functions . access to information shall be ensured by systematic and prompt publication of information: in official print media; on official web-sites on the Internet; on information boards; in any other way; providing information in response to information requests . access to restricted information must be restricted under the law subject to the combination of the following requirements . access to information about drawing up, considering and approving the budgets, cost estimates of spending units and plans of using the budget funds shall not be subject to restriction . access shall be restricted to information and not to a document . information specified in parts 1 and 2, Article 13 of this Law may not be deemed confidential . secret information means information restricted under part 2, Article 6 of this Law, and disclosure of which may harm a person, society, and the state . information containing state, professional, banking secrets, secrets of pre-trial investigation shall be deemed secret . documents containing official information shall be assigned a stamp "for official use" the scope of information about a person must be limited to the maximum extent possible . information administrators must provide it with no impediments and on a free-of-charge basis . any person may freely copy, publish, disseminate, use, including for commercial purposes . the list of datasets to be made publicly available in the form of open data shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . officers and officials shall not be subject to legal liability for disclosing information about offences or information concerning serious threat to the health or safety of citizens and environment . information administrators shall mean parties defined in Article 13 of this Law . business entities possessing the following types of information shall be equated to the information administrators . the provisions of this Law shall apply to information administrators determined in clauses 2, 3 and 4 of this Article only with regard to making it publicly available . information provided for by part 1 of this Article is to be made publicly available without delay . if the information administrator has an official website, such information shall be made available on the website with indication of the date when the document was made public available . the procedure for mandatory making publicly available of which is determined by the law. draft regulatory acts, draft decisions of the local governments shall be made publicly available . information about facts threatening life, health and/or property of persons must be made public . documents in possession of the public authorities must be registered . access to information about documents that are in possession of the public authority shall be ensured . system of recording public information may not be classified as restricted information . requests may be submitted orally, in writing or in other form (by mail, fax, phone, e-mail) information administrator must provide a response to the information request not later than five business days after the date of receiving the request . if information request concerns information necessary for protecting life or freedom of an individual, state of environment, quality of food products and household goods . information administrator shall have the right to deny satisfaction of the request in the following cases . information administrators may be appealed to the head of the administrator, supreme body or court . the requester shall have the right to appeal against denial to satisfy the information request, postponement in satisfaction of the request, false or incomplete information . law on access to public information shall enter into force three months after its publication . information administrators are liable for providing false, inaccurate or incomplete information, late provision of information, failure to register documents, wilful withholding or destruction of information or documents . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall: approve the maximum limits of expenses on copying or printing provided for by Article 21 of this Law . within two months after the enactment of the Law, the cabinet shall submit for consideration to the verkhovna Rada of Ukraine draft laws on bringing the laws of Ukraine in line with this law . president of Ukraine v. yanukovych city of kyiv 13 January 2011 no. 2939-vi .