this Law establishes the legal and organisational grounds for state market supervision and control of non-food products . state product control – activities of customs authorities to ensure the compliance of products imported into the customs territory of Ukraine for free circulation . market supervision authority – a central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of state market surveillance . market supervision of products covered by the established requirements, except for product types specified in part five of this Article . the provisions of this Law concerning market supervision shall apply to products that are installed or manufactured by a manufacturer for its own needs . the purpose of market supervision is to take restrictive (corrective) measures . control of products is to ensure that products imported into the customs territory of Ukraine comply with the established requirements . market supervision authorities may take measures provided for by the Law of Ukraine “On general safety of non-food products” market supervision authorities must ensure objectivity, impartiality and competence in market supervision and control of products . there should be no duplication of powers of market supervision authority and conformity assessment body in one body . business entities must ensure the protection of confidential information obtained during market supervision . market supervision authorities and their officials shall ensure the protection of personal data and information that, according to the Law of Ukraine, is a commercial or other secret protected by the laws of Ukraine . the provisions of this Article shall also apply to the information contained in the operational mutual notification system concerning the products that pose a serious risk . business entities shall enjoy rights defined by this Law, the Law of Ukraine “On general safety of non-food products”, other regulatory acts (including technical regulations) in the process of market supervision and control of products, business entities have the right to: 1) require from officials engaged in market supervision to comply with the requirements of the legislation . business entities shall be obliged to effectively interact with each other, carrying out business activities . if the market supervision authority cannot identify a manufacturer of products, a person who put such products into circulation shall be considered any business entity in the supply chain of the relevant product . market supervision authorities shall exercise their powers impartially . market supervision authorities shall interact and share information with each other . their areas of responsibility shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . authorities shall participate in the implementation of state policy in the sphere of market supervision . market supervision authorities shall monitor the actions of business entities with regard to the withdrawal from circulation and/or recall of products . they shall take appropriate measures to timely warn consumers (users) about the danger these products pose . control of products shall be implemented by customs authorities . customs authorities shall interact with each other, with market supervision authorities, law enforcement agencies, public consumer organisations, associations of business entities . the powers and procedures for customs activities concerning control of products shall be determined by the Customs Code of Ukraine, this Law and other laws of Ukraine . the distribution of powers between the customs authorities shall be determined by law . officials engaged in market supervision have the right to carry out verification of documents and inspections of product samples . they may also request from business entities to provide documents and materials necessary for market supervision . officials engaged in market supervision and control of products shall be obliged to comply with the requirements of this Law, the Law of Ukraine "On general safety of non-food products" and regulatory acts adopted in accordance with them; 4) not to inhibit economic activities when taking the measures of market supervision . officials shall have the right to carry out verifications of documents and selective inspections of product samples . officials engaged in market supervision and control of products shall be independent . counteraction, threats, violence or other actions that impede the performance of the powers shall entail liability established by the Law of Ukraine . officials engaged may purchase travel tickets to use urban, suburban and intercity passenger transport . official engaged in market supervision shall be reimbursed for damages caused to his/her property . measures of legal and social protection of officials engaged in control of products shall be determined by customs code of Ukraine . sectoral market supervision plans to be annually approved by market supervision authorities . draft sectoral market supervision plans and amendments thereto shall be discussed with interested executive authorities, associations of business entities, scientific, technical and engineering societies and unions . plans shall be approved by relevant market supervision authorities no later than 1 December of the year preceding the planned one . results of monitoring shall be included in reports on the implementation of sectoral plans for the previous year . market supervision authorities shall submit reports on the implementation of sectoral market supervision plans for the previous year to the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of economic and social development . market supervision measures shall be as follows: 1) inspections of product characteristics, including a sampling of products and their examination (testing) market supervision measures shall be taken in respect of products that are provided on the market . restrictions on the placement of products held by consumers (users) shall be applied . market supervision authorities shall conduct scheduled and unscheduled inspections of product characteristics . inspections of product characteristics shall be carried out by virtue of orders of market supervision authorities . relevant orders and assignments for inspections shall be issued and executed in accordance herewith . market supervision authority shall have the right to require the provision of such documents . the period of inspection of product characteristics shall be suspended until the market supervision authority receives the translated documents and materials . extension of the inspection period shall not be allowed . market supervision authorities shall take due account of expert opinions, product test reports, certificates of conformity . market supervision authorities shall have the right to request information from designated conformity assessment authorities and recognised independent organisations . they shall provide information under such requests within ten days of receipt of the relevant request . if signs of falsification of products, infringement of intellectual property rights or other offences are revealed, they shall report such information to authorised government authorities . an official of the market supervision authority shall not have the right to conduct the inspection without the assignment for inspection and the service certificate . the act shall indicate a detailed description of violations of the requirements of the legislation revealed during the inspection . comments of a business entity or its authorised person concerning the conduct of the inspection shall be integral part of the act . market supervision authorities shall conduct inspections of product characteristics at distributors . a manufacturer proves during the inspection that: it has not put into circulation the products that are dangerous, pose a risk and/or do not meet the established requirements . in cases referred to in subclause “b” of clause 2 of this Law, a person, which put such products into circulation and due to actions or inactivity of a distributor (distributors) shall be identified against the supply chain of products . market supervision authorities shall conduct inspections of product characteristics at manufacturers . object of inspection shall be documents containing information about the origin of products that are dangerous, pose a risk and/or do not meet the established requirements . if there are documented grounds to believe that the products are dangerous, pose a risk and/or do not meet the requirements due to actions or inactivity of a manufacturer of such products . at the initial stage of the inspection, the objects of inspection shall be: a) a mark of conformity to technical regulations; b) the presence of accompanying documentation to be attached to the relevant products; c) general description of products. market supervision authorities may conduct inspections of product characteristics at manufacturers . if results of inspections establish that the relevant products are dangerous, pose a risk . documents referred to in subclause “d” of clause 1 must be provided by a manufacturer . products that do not meet requirements presented at venue of fair, exhibition, display or otherwise demonstration of products . market supervision authority conducts inspection of product characteristics at venue . issue improvement notice on immediate elimination of violations specified in part one of this Article . testing laboratories or other organisations accredited to conduct examination (testing) of samples of relevant products are absent in Ukraine . it shall be allowed to examine (test) samples of such products in testing laboratories . the market supervision authority may apply to a testing laboratory accredited in another state . samples of products used for examination (testing), the value of which exceeds the limit set by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, shall be sold at public biddings (auctions) those, which are found dangerous, posing a risk and/or not meeting the established requirements shall be subject to destruction . Article 28. Restrictive (corrective) measures for products that pose a serious risk . market supervision authority may take restrictive (corrective) measures if necessary . restrictions, ban to place products on the market, withdrawal of the products from circulation, recall of products may be taken . the list of violations defined in the relevant technical regulations as formal non-compliance . market supervision authority shall notify designated conformity assessment authorities of detected non-compliance of the products with the established requirements . restrictions on the placement of products on the market shall be implemented by: . a business entity shall send in paper form, in person, through an authorised person, by mail or in electronic form . restrictions on the placement of products on the market specified in clause 1, part one of this Article shall be applied by market supervision authorities . business entities in the supply chain of the relevant products shall be required to cooperate with each other, in order to bring products in compliance with established requirements . ban to place the products on the market shall not apply to actions related to the return of such products to their distributor or manufacturer . Article 32. Withdrawal of products from circulation shall provide for the return by distributors of all units of relevant products at their disposal . recall of products shall be applied as an exceptional measure . market supervision authorities may make a decision on the ban or temporary ban to place such products on the market . the choice of restrictive measures should take into account the risk degree and/or non-compliance of such products with the established requirements . market supervision authorities may amend or revoke restrictive (corrective) measures . any measure must be proportional to the level of threat the relevant products pose to the public interest . the decision of the market supervision authority on the application of restrictions or bans must specify the grounds for its application . restrictive (corrective) measures may be applied to the entire volume of products of a particular brand (model, article, modification), or their individual batches or series . the period of execution of the decision must be justified, determined taking into account the nature of the risk and/or non-compliance with the established requirements . a business entity has the right to submit (send) explanations, objections and/or information to such a draft decision within ten working days from the date of receipt of the draft . if it is necessary to take urgent restrictive (corrective) measures, the market supervision authority may make a decision without submitting (sending) the business entity . market supervision authorities shall conduct inspections of the state of execution of decisions on restrictive (corrective) measures by business entities . inspections shall begin no later than ten working days from the date of receipt by the market supervision authority of the notification from a business entity . market supervision authorities shall monitor the effectiveness of restrictive (corrective) measures . monitoring shall consist in tracking of compliance with such a ban in the retail network . if the results of this monitoring show that the products banned to be placed on the market are placed on market, the market supervision authority shall require from a manufacturer to withdraw them from circulation . market supervision authorities shall take measures to warn consumers (users) about the danger the products pose . information shall be disseminated through the media and the Internet . control of products shall be conducted in customs control zones . customs authorities shall receive information about products posing a serious risk . procedures for control of products shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . customs authority shall suspend customs clearance of products presented for customs control . suspension shall specify specific batches of products of a certain brand (model, article, modification) or individual items . customs clearance of products based on results of control of products may be suspended . customs authority shall notify market supervision authority of suspension of clearance . market supervision authorities shall inspect the characteristics of the products . if necessary, the product characteristics can be inspected at the place of their storage . customs clearance of products was suspended as a result of control of products . market supervision authority establishes that products pose a serious risk . it may take appropriate measures, which may include a ban to put such products into circulation . products that pose a serious risk and are under customs control may be placed under the customs regime of abolition or destruction . market supervision authorities shall provide customs authorities with information on detected products . the national market supervision information system shall be established and operated . market supervision and control of products shall be financed from the state budget . a person who has put the products into circulation, or is considered to have put them into circulation in accordance herewith, shall be subject to administrative and economic sanctions . a distributor shall be subject to administrative and economic sanctions in the form of a penalty in case of non-compliance with the storage conditions of the products it distributes . if the products have become dangerous and/or non-compliant as a result of this, in the amount of two thousand non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens . administrative and economic sanctions shall be imposed on a person who has placed the products on the market or is considered to have put the products into circulation in accordance herewith . penalties for violations specified in this Article shall be considered by the heads of market supervision authorities within the scope of their respective competence . officials of market supervision authorities who have detected violations shall draw up a report on the committed violations . the report shall be drawn up in two copies to be signed by officials of the market supervision authority and an individual . one copy shall be handed over to an individual, or the head of a legal entity or a person authorised by him/her . in case of non-payment of the penalty within fifteen days, it shall be collected in court . a manufacturer, authorised representative, importer or another person shall not bear the liability established by Article 44 of this Law, if he proves that he did not put the relevant products into circulation . officials engaged in market supervision and control of products shall bear disciplinary, administrative, criminal and civil liability . exchange of information on products that pose a serious risk, including participation in international, regional and foreign systems of notification . this Law shall enter into force six months after its publication, except for clause 8 of Section IX . the following persons shall have the right to consider cases of administrative offences and impose administrative penalties . putting of dangerous products into circulation on the market of Ukraine shall be punishable by a penalty of one hundred to two hundred non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens, or correctional labour for a period up to two years . a buyer shall have the right to demand from a seller or a manufacturer: 1) free-charge elimination of defects in products within a reasonable period; 2) refund of the amount paid for the products . the amount of money paid for the products to be returned to a buyer in case of recall of products shall be determined based on the price of such products at the time of recall . provisions of this clause and the legislation on protection of consumer's rights shall apply to relations related to the legal consequences of recalling products . market supervision shall be exercised by the central executive authority for technical regulation and consumer policy, and its territorial bodies . market supervision authorities and authorities of revenues and duties shall exchange notifications stipulated in parts eight and nine of Article 37, part five of Article 38, Article 39, parts one and two of Article 40 . measures for safety and market supervision of relevant products shall be taken in accordance with the Law of Ukraine “On general safety of non-food products”