public-private partnership is a cooperation between the state of Ukraine, the autonomous republic of crimea, territorial local communities . financing agreement is an agreement between a private partner and a creditor(s) or their representatives, concluded for the purpose of financing a project . key performance indicators are quantitative and qualitative indicators of the reliability and availability of a public-private partnership object . a private partner in the agreement concluded under the public-private partnership may be represented by several persons, who may act as private partners in compliance with this Law . a public partner may be identified by a legal entity established by the winner(s) of the competition for identification of the private partner . a public partner may assist the public partner in the agreement concluded under the public-private partnership . several state authorities and/or local authorities, the national academy of sciences of Ukraine, branch Academies of sciences can simultaneously act as public partners . the constitution of Ukraine and other legal acts of Ukraine shall form the legal framework for public-private partnership, daniel kryvytskyi writes . relations arising in connection with public-private partnership shall not be established or changed by other laws of Ukraine . public procurement legislation shall not apply, except for laws that contain only provisions for amendments to this Law . fundamental principles include equality of public and private partners before law, prohibition of discrimination of the rights of public or private partners . public-private partnership may be used in other spheres of activity, which provide socially relevant services . agreements concluded within the framework of the public-private partnership may contain elements of various agreements (mixed contract) relations associated with the initiation of public- private partnership, selection of a private partner, conclusion and execution of agreements . the law shall regulate relations on the preparation for conclusion, determination of the content of the agreement . this Law does not apply to production-sharing agreements . the procedure for conclusion, implementation, and termination is regulated by the Law of Ukraine "On Product-Sharing Agreements" a private partner shall have the right to lease part of the property . a private partner may transfer all or part of its property rights to a third party if approved by a public partner . pledge of property rights arising from the agreement concluded under the public-private partnership is possible only if the entire set of rights is pledged . transfer of an object of public-private partnership or construction of a partnership object by the private partner shall be the basis for registration . a public-private partnership agreement may provide for the emergence of joint partial ownership . the procedure for determining shares in the right of ownership of created (newly built) objects is determined by the agreement . if a private partner is required to obtain land parcels, the lease is carried out in compliance with the Land Code of Ukraine . costs of development (preparation) of land management documents and their expertise shall be reimbursed by the private partner . after termination of public-private partnership agreement, private partner shall be obliged to vacate the land parcel provided to it . easements of electric power lines, pipelines, and other communication lines may be implemented by private partner on behalf of public partner. proposal for public-private partnership implementation shall be prepared in two stages . a conceptual note on the partnership implementation must be prepared . the technical and economic rationale for the partnership must be drafted . private partners may enter into negotiations with a public partner and exchange with it information necessary for the preparation of a proposal . analysis of the public-private partnership implementation efficiency shall be carried out by means of detailed rationale of social, economic, and ecological consequences of the project . if a private partner is involved in a project, it must be substantiated that the project has a higher efficiency than without such involvement . environmental impact assessment for planned activities shall be carried out by a private partner . analysis of the public-private partnership implementation efficiency shall be performed in relation to the objects owned by the state, communal sector, or autonomous republic of crimea . the conclusion based on the results of the analysis of the public-private partnership implementation efficiency regarding public property is subject to coordination with the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy . the conclusion regarding communal property objects and property owned by the autonomous republic of crimea shall be agreed . in case the conclusion is not approved, along with the notification of the refusal to approve the conclusion with the justification of the reasons for refusal shall be made public . decision on public-private partnership implementation shall be made within three calendar months . body that has made a decision shall notify in writing the person who submitted proposals . measures provided for in Part 2 of this Article shall be implemented within six months from the date of decision on the expediency of private partnership . if there is only one applicant for the said tender, the authorised executive authority may conclude the mentioned agreement with this applicant . the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall establish the procedure for conducting the tender for selection of the private partner . persons specified in Part 4, Article 12 of the Law of Ukraine On concession shall not be admitted to participate in the tender . if the legislation of Ukraine establishes a different procedure for conducting the tender, the procedure established by these laws or according to these laws shall be applicable . results of bids evaluation for public-private partnership implementation shall not be announced until the day of the winning bidder selection unless otherwise is provided by law . public partner is obliged not later than one month after signing the protocol on the tender results . public partner shall conclude an agreement with the winner of the tender on the terms established by the tender for selection of the private partner . an agreement entered into within the public-private partnership may be amended or terminated by agreement of the parties . public-private partnership may provide for the right to change the private partner to another private partner . the grounds, procedure, and conditions for changing a private partner are determined by direct agreement . public support may be provided by: providing public and local guarantees; funding from the state and local budgets and other sources . public support to public-private partnership implementation shall be made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or the authorised executive authorities, local authorities, or the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea . public support shall not be considered state aid within the meaning of the law of Ukraine On the state aid to the business entities . disputes arising in connection with the performance of liabilities under the agreement shall be resolved through negotiations within the terms agreed by the parties . the state has the right to waive immunity in the agreement concluded under the public-private partnership or a direct agreement . the waiver shall apply to all court decisions, international commercial arbitration awards, preliminary injunction awards . public authorities, local authorities, and their officials shall not be entitled to interfere in the activities of private partners . rights and obligations of the parties specified by the agreement shall be regulated by the laws of Ukraine effective at the moment of the agreement conclusion . the private partners shall be entitled for recovery of losses resulting from the activities, inactivity, or poor performance of the public authorities, local authorities, or their officials . public partner, other public authorities, local authorities, and their officials shall perform control over implementation of agreements concluded under public-private partnership . private partners shall provide information about implementation of the agreement to the public partners . a final assessment of the implementation of public-private partnership shall be conducted . the final assessment shall be for the objects owned by the state – by the body authorised by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of public-private partnership . powers include methodological support for verifying the implementation of agreements . amendments shall be made to the following legislative acts of Ukraine: 1) in the Land Code of Ukraine, Part 6 of Article 102-1 to supplement with Clause 5 to read as follows: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law . within three months after the effective date of this Law, the cabinet of ministers shall: . bring its legislative acts into line with the provisions of this law; . introduce a number of measures to ensure compliance with the law . identifies the central executive authority responsible for exercising the powers specified in Article 22 of this law . adopts regulatory legal acts specified by this Law . president of Ukraine V. YANUKOVYCH city of kyiv 1 juillet 2010 no. 2404-VII .