this Law shall specify legal and institutional frameworks, core principles and rules for state supervision (oversight) in the area of commercial activity . acceptable risk shall be defined as socially, economically, technically and politically justified risk not exceeding the maximum allowable level . the scope of the law shall be limited to the areas specified by the law, i.e. the territory of the autonomous republic of crimea . this Law shall apply to relations involved in the implementation of state supervision (oversight) in the field of commercial activities . it shall not apply to foreign exchange operations supervision, tax supervision, customs oversight, state export oversight . supervision over the observance by gambling operators of the requirements of the Law of Ukraine “On Government Regulation of Activities in the Field of Organisation and Conduct of Gambling” shall be conducted under the statutory procedure . the central executive authority implementing state policy in the field of food safety, food quality and veterinary medicine, its regional branches must ensure observance of the specifics defined by the Law of Ukraine . monitoring of designated conformity assessment bodies and recognised independent organisations shall be carried out as prescribed by this Law . control over the observance of the requirements in the field of donation of blood and blood components shall be carried out as prescribed by the Law . state supervision (oversight) shall be conducted based on priority of security in matters of human life and health, functioning and development of society . state supervision (oversight) shall be conducted at the place of economic activity of an economic entity or its separate subdivisions . planned and ad hoc measures must be conducted during the working hours of the business entity as established by the internal regulations . state supervision (oversight) authorities and business entities are entitled to record the process of carrying out a planned or ad hoc measure . failure to comply with writs, orders and other administrative documents entails the imposition of sanctions on the business entity under the law . a court may halt the production (manufacture) or sale of products, the performance of works or the output of services by business entities after suspension . a planned or ad hoc measure against a business entity must be carried out in the presence of the head or the authorised person . state supervision (oversight) authorities provide a special regime of protection and access to information constituting commercial secret, as required by law . data containing information with restricted access to the integrated automated system of state supervision (oversight) system shall not be entered . access to information from an integrated automated state supervision system shall be conducted via the Internet and shall be open and free of charge . state unitary enterprise shall be the technical administrator of the automated state supervision (oversight) system . planning activities shall be conducted in accordance with annual plans approved by the state supervision authority no later than 1 December of the year prior to the planning one . if the business entity has separate units at its disposal, planned state supervision measures of the latter may be conducted simultaneously in all separate units . a business entity is entitled to refuse the conduct of a planned state supervision (oversight) measure . the draft plan for the comprehensive state supervision measures shall be formed by an automated system . if it is necessary to amend plans, the latter shall apply with appropriate proposals . state supervision (oversight) authorities shall adopt the annual plans for the implementation of the planned state supervision measures for the relevant planning period . requirements for drawing up annual and comprehensive plans shall be determined by the central executive authority implementing state regulatory policy and policy on supervision . all business entities subject to supervision (oversight) belong to one of three risk degrees: high, medium or small . criteria used for assessing the risk degree of commercial activities conduct shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . a business entity shall be notified in writing of the planned measure no later than in 10 days before the day on which the measure shall be conducted . notification must contain: start date and end date of the conduct of state planned measure; name of a legal entity or surname, first name and patronymic of individual entrepreneur . state supervision (oversight) authority detects an error in the mandatory reporting document . it is obliged to notify the business entity within 10 working days of the need to correct the error within a period of up to five working days from the date of the notification receipt . failure to correct an error within the established period shall lead to ad hoc measure conduct . ad hoc measures conduct on grounds other than those provided herein shall be prohibited . a business entity must get familiarised with the grounds for the measure conduct . the duration of the 'ad-hoc measure' may not exceed 10 working days . a business entity is entitled to prevent officials of the state supervision (oversight) authority from conducting a measure if they have not produced the documents provided for herein . the official must present the head of the business entity, a legal entity, its separate subdivision or the authorised person with a certificate . the official of the state supervision (oversight) authority shall draft a report . the official notes the status of compliance by the business entity with the requirements of the legislation in the act . on the last day of inspection, two copies of the act shall be signed . a writ is a written requirement by an official of a state supervision (oversight) authority to a business entity to eliminate violations of the law requirements . a directive may provide for the imposition of sanctions prescribed by law to the business entity . administrative document of the state supervision (oversight) authority on the elimination of violations shall be drawn up in duplicate . one copy shall be provided in no later than five working days from the date of the act drawing up, to the business entity or the authorised person for its implementation . state supervision (oversight) authorities and their officials shall be obliged: bring about state supervision in full, in good faith and in an impartial manner . within the limits of its competence provide advice to the business entity on the implementation of state supervision . state supervision (oversight) authorities must publish regulatory acts (other than those with access restrictions) on their official websites . damage caused to a natural or legal entity by unlawful decisions, acts or omissions of an official or an officer shall be compensated . an official or officer of a state supervision (oversight) authority shall be liable for unlawful decisions, acts or omissions . the official shall be responsible for failure to provide or for provision of unreliable or incorrect information on measures taken . ensuring the preparation and approval of plans of state supervision (oversight) in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . drawing up reports on administrative offences in cases provided for by law . generalising the practice of applying legislation on state supervision in the area of commercial activity . in the course of state supervision (oversight) conduct business entity is entitled to be informed of the rights and liabilities . in cases provided by law, officials did not provide a copy of the approval from the central executive authority implementing state policy . a business entity is obliged to allow officials to conduct state supervision (oversight) measures . the business entity must provide documents, samples of products, explanations . it must also receive a copy of the act and/or the writs of the state supervision authority . violations of legislation requirements detected in the course of state supervision (oversight) conduct provides for the imposition of fines on business entities . business entities and officials of business entities, a legal entity, shall not be liable if refuse to explain their activities . product samples selection shall be conducted by virtue of a written reasoned decision . business entity is entitled to be present at all the actions of the officials of the state supervision (oversight) authority in the course of products samples collection . reference samples shall be stored in conditions that preserve their quality and integrity . samples collected shall be completed, packed and sealed (stamped) costs related to the collection, delivery and expertise (testing) of samples shall be financed by the state supervision (oversight) authority . experts shall be hired on a contractual basis at the expense of the government . business entities are entitled to appeal to a court . a business entity may conduct an expertise (testing) of the remaining sample at its own initiative within authorised and/or certified authority . state supervision (oversight) authorities shall provide business entities with written advices on the requirements for procedure of the relevant commercial activity . a business entity is entitled to refer to the appropriate central executive authority or the court to appeal decisions of state supervision (oversight) authorities . this Law shall enter into force within six months from the publication date, except for parts of 1 and 2 of Article 5 . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall approve the following within three months of the introduction of the Law . submit to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals on bringing the laws of Ukraine in line with this Law . approve criteria for distribution of business entities by level of business risk in regard to the safety and health of population and the environment .