the sovereignty of Ukraine shall apply to its entire territory, which shall be integral and inviolable within the existing border . presence of units of the other states' armed forces within the territory of Ukraine constitutes occupation of a part of the territory . the temporarily occupied territory is defined as 1) land territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of sevastopol, the internal waters of these territories of Ukraine . law establishes a special legal regime within this territory, defines the specifics of functioning of government a special legal regime shall apply to the crossing of borders of the temporarily occupied territory, making transactions, holding elections and referendums . responsibility for violating human and civil rights and freedoms shall be assigned to the Russian Federation as an occupying state under the norms and principles of international law . compensation for damage caused by the temporary occupation shall be fully attributed to the Russian Federation as the occupying state . the right of citizens residing within the temporarily occupied territory to obtain documents confirming the citizenship of Ukraine, identity documents or special status certificates confirming place of stay shall be issued to citizens on the day of application . citizens of Ukraine residing within temporarily occupied territory have rights to social services . elderly citizens, persons with disabilities, children with disabilities have the right to be provided with social services under the legislation of Ukraine. citizens of Ukraine residing within the temporarily occupied territory, in settlements at the contact line, shall have the right to receive or continue receiving educational level . foreigners and stateless persons permanently residing in Ukraine, persons who have been granted refugee status in Ukraine . persons specified in paragraphs one and two of this part shall have right to get pre-school, extracurricular, general secondary, specialised, vocational pre-higher . citizens of Ukraine residing within the temporarily occupied territory shall have the right to exercise their right to vote in such elections or all-Ukrainian referendums . elections of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, members of local councils, village, settlement, city heads, and local referendums shall not be held . relations between state authorities of Ukraine, their officials, local self-government bodies and their officials with illegal bodies (officials) created within the temporarily occupied territory . citizens of Ukraine shall have the right to free and unhindered entry to and exit from the temporarily-occupied territory through entry/exit checkpoints . foreigners and stateless persons shall be allowed into and out of the temporarily–occupied territory only with a special permit . any transaction related to real estate, including land plots, made within the temporarily occupied territory in violation of the requirements of this Law and other laws of Ukraine shall be considered invalid from the moment of performance . land, its resources, atmospheric air, water and other natural resources located within the territory of Ukraine, natural resources of its continental shelf, exclusive (marine) economic zone, shall not become the property of other states, legal entities or individuals . civil cases under the jurisdiction of local general courts located within the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol shall be ensured by local courts . administrative offenсes shall be dealt with in local courts at the place of detection of an administrative offence . commercial cases of the district administrative court of the autonomous republic of crimea – by the Kyiv District Administrative Court . civil cases under the jurisdiction of local general courts located in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol may also be submitted to the local general court located within the Kherson region, at the person's choice . an individual (defendant, debtor, stakeholder, third person) permanently residing in the temporarily occupied territory may file a petition to transfer such a case . re-transfer of the case shall not be allowed . cases pending before the court located in the territory of the autonomous republic of Crimea and the city of sevastopol shall be transmitted to the courts following the jurisdiction established herein . jurisdiction shall be established at the place of damage, taking into account the rules of jurisdiction established by this Law . parties to a case with the last known address of place of residence (stay) or location within the temporarily occupied territory shall be notified of the relevant court decision . military personnel of military formations and law enforcement agencies of Ukraine who arrived from the temporarily-occupied territory, shall be dismissed from military service . military personnel of military formations and law enforcement agencies of Ukraine have the right to privatise duly received residential premises . procedure for privatising residential premises specified in part 1 of this Article shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . transfer of judges from the military courts to the civilian courts shall be governed by the law of Ukraine "On Transfer of Judges". judges who have worked in the courts of Ukraine in the territory of the autonomous republic of Crimea and the city of sevastopol shall be guaranteed the right to be reassigned . state bodies of Ukraine shall apply mechanisms provided for by the laws of Ukraine and norms of international law . citizens of Ukraine are guaranteed full respect of their rights and freedoms after they leave the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine . this law shall come into force on the day following its publication . it shall become invalid from the moment of return of the temporarily occupied territory . the listed below legislative acts of Ukraine shall be amended as follows . criminal code shall be supplemented with article 332-1 . court cases related to disputes arising from the fact of occupation shall constitute a separate category of cases . if a foreign element is party to the case, court orders, summons and other court documents shall be served no later than 15 days before the start of the procedural action . violations of the border regime or regime at checkpoints at the state border of Ukraine shall be replaced by “violation of the procedure for entering and leaving the temporarily occupied territory” . foreigners and stateless persons who violate the rules of stay in Ukraine or transit through the territory of Ukraine may be detained for up to three hours . part 1 of the Article 183-2 shall be supplemented with paragraph 6 to read as follows: “6) appeal by individuals against decisions, actions or omissions of authorities related to entering (leaving) the temporarily occupied territory” . a) in part 2 of the article 10, paragraphs 6 and 8 shall be supplements with the words “and at entry/exit checkpoints” following the words "state border of Ukraine" b) in paragraph 12 of Article 256, the number “6” shall be substituted foreigners and stateless persons who have arrived at the entry/exit checkpoints from the temporarily occupied territory without an appropriate permit shall not be allowed to continue traveling . Article 14-1 of the Law of Ukraine “On the Legal Status of Foreigners and Stateless Persons” shall be supplemented with the words “traveling across the state border of Ukraine” . if it is impossible to immediately return a foreigner or stateless person back, they shall remain at the entry/exit checkpoints at the state border of Ukraine until their return . transit of foreigners and stateless persons through the temporarily occupied territory shall be prohibited . in the law of Ukraine "on amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the implementation of the action plan for the liberalisation of the EU visa regime for Ukraine regarding the liability of legal entities" the grounds for applying criminal law measures to a legal entity shall be committing by its authorised person either on behalf or by order, by collusion and in complicity, or by other means . if the crime is aimed at obtaining an illegal benefit or creating conditions for obtaining such a benefit, as well as at eva criminal law measures, in the cases provided for in paragraph 1, part one of Article 96-3 hereof, may be applied by the court to an enterprise, institution or organisation . legal entity shall compensate for the losses and damage caused in full, as well as the amount of illegal benefits, which were received or could have been received by a legal entity . information about a legal entity that criminal law measures may be applied to shall be entered by an investigator or prosecutor in the unified register of pre-trial investigations . a copy of the prosecutor's decision to close the criminal proceedings and/or proceedings against the legal entity shall be sent to the plaintiff, the victim, his representative, the suspect, the defence lawyer . “this Law shall come into force from the moment of enactment of the Law of Ukraine . Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall develop and submit to the verkhovna Rada of Ukraine draft laws . central election commission shall take all necessary measures to ensure the exercise of electoral rights .