this Law defines the main legal, economic, and organisational bases of activities at heat supply facilities . it regulates relations related to the production, transportation, supply, and use of heat energy . the main thermal power system is a set of pipelines and structures that ensure the transportation of heat transfer medium to a local (distribution) heating network . norms and rules are certain requirements, including instructions adopted and registered . heat supply facilities are heat-generating units or installations, thermal power plants, combined heat and power plants . security zone of heating networks is a territory along heating networks, allocated to ensure normal operating conditions, prevent damage . current accounts with a special mode of use are accounts of a heat supply entity . current accounts with special terms of use for handling accounts under investment programmes are accounts of business entities in the area of district heating . tariff (price) for heat energy is the monetary value of costs for production, transportation, supply of a unit of thermal energy (1 Gcal) heat-using plant is a system of equipment (devices) using thermal energy (heat transfer medium) parties to relationships in the field of heat supply are individuals and legal entities . thermal energy is a commercial product produced at heat supply facilities . law regulates relations arising in connection with production, transportation, supply and use of thermal energy . centralised heat supply to consumers from heat-generating and power plants and boiler houses . state policy in the field of heat supply shall be based on the following principles . ensuring the state's energy security; public administration and regulation of relations . non-traditional and renewable energy sources, including solar, wind, biogas, geothermal water, industrial waste energy . implementation of highly efficient thermal power equipment and materials in newly built and operating heat supply systems . state support in the field of heat supply shall be provided in accordance with the amount of funds stipulated by the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine . powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the field of heat supply . powers of central executive authorities in charge of shaping state policy in housing and utilities . power of the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea, local state administrations . powers of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administrations in the field of heat supply . include: elaboration and implementation of local programmes, participation in state target programmes in this area . exercising supervision and oversight over the supply of consumers in cities and other inhabited localities with thermal energy . state supervision (oversight) in the field of heat supply shall be carried out by the central executive authority implementing the state policy . subject of state supervision is business activities related to the production, transportation, supply and use of thermal energy . the state executive authority shall supervise thermal, heat-using installations and networks of parties to relationships . in the event of a breach of the law, it shall be subject to the cessation of acts that impede exercising the state supervision . inspectors of the State Energy Supervision shall be entitled to access to heating and heat-using plants and networks . they are also entitled to receive free of charge information, explanations, references, documents, materials, information on issues arising during the implementation of state supervision (oversight) the inspectors shall be able to make decisions on product sampling (parts of power equipment, etc.) and to adjudicate disputes arising between entities operating in the field of heat supply . government regulation of heat supply activities shall be carried out in the form of: licensing certain types of business activities in this field . it shall also regulate tariffs for the production, transportation and supply of thermal energy taking into account changes in prices for energy products and other costs. the government regulation in the field of heat supply shall be carried out by: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; the National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission . powers of the Commission shall include: elaboration of the tariff calculation methods for thermal energy production and fees for its transportation and supply . power of the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea, oblast, Kyiv and sevastopol city administrations . heat supply entities shall be prohibited from abusing their monopoly position in any form . heat-generating entities using various technologies for the production of heat energy shall have equal rights of access to the heat energy market . consumers shall pay the heat supply entity on a monthly basis for the heat actually received . gas supply of heat supply facilities shall be terminated in case of the heat-generating and heat supply entities' failure of timely payment for actually consumed natural gas . such termination shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . payment for thermal energy produced using natural gas supplied in full or in part by a guaranteed supplier shall be made by thermal energy consumers . thermal energy tariffs must ensure recovery of economically justified costs . tariffs for heat production, including heat and power plants, thermal power plants and co-generation plants, shall be set by the National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission . in the absence of a set tariff for thermal energy produced using natural gas, for the needs of institutions and organisations financed from the state or local budget, as well as for needs of the population, tariffs will be set at 90 per cent of the current tariff for business entities . tariffs for thermal energy production for institutions and organisations financed from the state or local budget, as well as for the needs of the population, shall be determined for business entities that produce thermal energy in plants using alternative energy sources . in case of the absence of established tariffs . for transportation and supply of thermal energy produced using natural gas, for the . needs of relevant category of consumers, tariffs will be determined at the level of weighted average . tariffs of transporting and supplying thermal energy . weighted average tariffs for thermal energy produced using natural gas shall be published . tariffs are used by business entities that produce heat at plants using alternative energy sources . the tariff for the production of thermal energy shall be calculated in accordance with this Article . tariff for thermal energy for the consumer shall be defined as the sum of the tariffs for production, transportation and supply of thermal energy . setting tariffs below the amount of economically justified costs shall not be allowed . authorities of government regulation of the activities of subjects of natural monopolies shall be obliged to make a decision on reduction of tariff set by them . Disputes concerning the formation and establishment of tariffs for thermal energy shall be resolved in court . heat-generating entities shall have the right to access the mainstream and local heating networks . priority of concluding contracts for the purchase of thermal energy from them shall be established on a competitive basis . if technological costs of thermal energy or fuel costs of heat-generating, heat transportation, heat supply entities exceed the normative level, this may be grounds for termination of existing contractual relations with them . change of ownership or transfer of ownership of relevant facilities should not lead to deterioration of conditions and quality of heat supply to consumers . thermal energy consumer's main responsibilities shall include: timely conclusion of a contract with a heat supply entity for the supply of thermal energy . heat-generating, heat transporting and heat supply entities shall have the right to enter into thermal energy sale contracts with consumers . in case of undue payments for the consumption of thermal energy, the consumer shall pay a penalty in the amount established by law or contract . design, construction, renovation of heat supply facilities shall be carried out by specialised organisations that have the appropriate permits and licences . investment programmes shall be developed by business entities operating in the field of heat supply . business entities shall open special accounts in the manner prescribed by law . heat supply entities – holders of special accounts shall be obliged to use funds in such accounts solely for the implementation of investment programmes . heat-generating and heat supply companies must comply with the requirements of environmental legislation, be responsible for its violation . to ensure the safety of the population living in the area of heat supply facilities, protected zones shall be established . in the event of the state of emergency and special period in accordance with the laws of Ukraine "On the Legal Status of the State of Emergency" employees who provide technological processes in the field of heat supply shall be required to undergo special training and certification in accordance with the law . employees of the main professions employed in heat-generating and heat supply organisations may be supplemented by a tariff rate or official salary . evasion of execution or untimely execution of decisions or instructions of the central executive body implementing the state policy in the field of energy-saving . resistance or non-admission to the heat supply and heat consumption systems of employees of the state supervision body or representatives of heat supply entities . after three such violations, the heat supplier shall pay a fine for violation of licence terms . penalties for violations specified in this Law shall be considered by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of supervision (oversight) in heat supply . the decision to impose a penalty in cases of violations provided for by this Law can be appealed in court . if international treaty of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine establishes rules other than those provided for by this Law, the rules of that treaty shall apply . this Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication . the following laws of Ukraine shall be amended: .