this Law defines the legal basis of the regulation of relations and activities related to the establishment of geographical site names . it is important for addressing tasks of national security, development of economic, science and education, as well as in everyday life of citizens . the Laws of Ukraine on geographical names are based on the Constitution of Ukraine, other regulatory acts . this Law shall apply to the regulation of relations and activities related to the establishment of geographical site names . it also regulates relations on the use in Ukraine of names of geographical sites located in the territory of other states . the central executive authority in charge of shaping state policy in the field of topographic and geodetic and cartographic activities . the establishment of geographical names involves identifying existing or known in the past historical geographical names, naming and renaming geographical sites . the name given to a geographical site shall reflect the most characteristic features of this site . names of eminent statesmen or public figures, representatives of science and culture or other persons whose activity is not related to the relevant geographical sites may be assigned posthumously . renaming of geographical sites shall be carried out in the case of: repetition of names of homogeneous geographical sites within one administrative and territorial unit . names of persons holding management positions in the Communist Party, the supreme authorities of control and administration of the USSR, the Ukrainian SSR (Ukrainian SSR) names of the soviet state security bodies, names related to activities of the communist party . use of languages in geographical names is determined by the Law of Ukraine “On Ensuring the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as the State Language” . naming and renaming of geographical sites shall be carried out by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . proposals on naming and renaming of a geographical site shall be submitted to the relevant authorities specified in Article 7 of this Law . geographical sites formed by a decision of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall be named by the relevant decisions on their formation . names of geographical sites located in the territory of Ukraine as well as the names of geographic sites of other countries of the world that are used in Ukraine are subject to recording and state registration . state registration of geographical names shall be carried out by the designated executive authority for geographical names . geographical site names shall also be recorded by the executive authorities and local governments whose powers include the naming and renaming of geographical sites . naming or renaming of geographical sites on the proposal of enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens of Ukraine may be carried out at the expense of the corresponding budget . international cooperation on the issues of establishment, standardisation, recording, registration, use, preservation of geographical names .