the purpose of this Law is to create a legal basis for increasing the efficiency of fuel use in energy production processes . the list of secondary energy resources that can be used to produce electric and heating energy in co-generation units is established by the central executive authority in the field of energy-saving . this Law regulates relations arising in the field of energy-saving between owners of co-generation units and distribution system operators . the effect of this Law extends to units that were put into operation after the enactment of this law . financing of project development, purchase of technological equipment and construction of co-generation units is carried out at the expense of own and borrowed funds of enterprises, partial use of special accounts of technology parks, individuals, loans from energy companies, as well as from the respective budgets . authorised persons of the owner (co-owners) and investor of the cogeneration unit are granted under the Land Code of Ukraine, the right to use the land . licences and setting tariffs for heat generated by co-generation units are carried out by the national commission for state regulation of energy and public utilities . conditions for the management of municipal heat supply companies are maintained in the case of modernisation of these companies . the amount of supplied heat shall be at least 10 per cent of the total electric and heating energy production within one year of its commissioning . qualification of co-generation units is carried out by the central executive authority in the field of energy-saving following the procedure approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . technical conditions for connection to the electrical and/or heat grid shall be provided by its owner in the manner prescribed by regulations . in cases where technical conditions envisage the reconstruction or modernisation of electricity distribution grids or technological equipment of the electricity grid owner . the owner of the heat grid is obliged to connect the co-generation unit to its heat grid . rules for connection are set by the central executive authority in the field of heat supply . this Law shall enter into force on the day of its publication, except for Article 9 . ensuring that the central executive authorities bring their regulatory acts in line with this Law . ensure that the regional and local authorities bring the regulatory acts of the central authorities into line with the law .