this Law defines the legal and organisational principles of transport and forwarding activities in Ukraine . it focuses on creating conditions for its development and improvement . the provisions of this Law shall also apply to cases when the freight forwarder's duties are performed by the shipper . freight forwarders may voluntarily organise themselves in associations, leagues, unions . the main task of government regulation of freight forwarding activities is to protect the economic interests of Ukraine . freight forwarders provide services to clients in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian legislation and the countries through the territories of which goods are transported . the parties have the right to use well-known international customs, recommendations, regulations of the international bodies and organisations . the agreement of freight forwarding is concluded in writing . one party (forwarder) undertakes for a fee and at the expense of the other party (client) to perform or realise services specified in the agreement related to cargo carriage . freight forwarding agreements must meet the requirements of the legislation on foreign economic activity . a freight forwarder may arrange for the transportation of goods of several different clients under one consignment note . documents drawn up in the language of international communication depending on the chosen means of transport or in the state language if the goods are transported in Ukraine . the freight forwarder is obliged to provide freight forwarding services in accordance with the agreement . the client has the right to designate the cargo route and the means of transport . a single transport document or a set of documents shall confirm the cargo's route . the freight forwarder has the right to act at his sole discretion, notifying the client of his actions . the client is obliged in a timely manner to provide complete, accurate and reliable information on the name, quantity, quality and other characteristics of the cargo . a freight forwarding agreement may also provide other obligations of the client. Disputes in the field of freight forwarding are resolved in accordance with the law . this Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication . within three months from the enactment of this Law, the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall ensure adoption of regulatory acts .