this Law determines the legal, organisational, socio-economic bases of the functioning of municipal electric transport of general use in the transport services market . it is aimed at creating favourable conditions for its development, meeting the needs of citizens for affordable, high quality, and safe transportation . an electronic ticket is a travel document of the established form that entitles the passenger to receive transport services . transport services – transportation of passengers and their luggage by municipal electric transport . the right to use transport services is granted by a purchased one-time ticket, a composted subscription ticket or a registered electronic ticket . the Rules of service delivery by municipal electric transport shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . they determine the procedure of travel and its payment, rights and obligations of passengers . routes (lines) are equipped by dispatching stations, traffic control facilities, pavilions (stations) for passengers as well as by the necessary sanitary hygienic equipment . public policy in the field of municipal electric transport is carried out on the basis of: accessibility of transport services for all segments of the population . priority of development in cities with an elevated level of environmental pollution . creating favourable conditions for the production of domestic rolling stock and improving it . main task of state control in the field of municipal electric transport is to ensure the provision of safe transport services and observance by carriers of the legislation . central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy on land transport safety: performs registration and accounting of tram cars and trolleybuses . government control over the technical condition of the underground railway is carried out according to the legislation . contract on the organisation of the delivery of transport services shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . contract on the organisation of the delivery of transport services is concluded on the basis of the standard contract for a period of not less than one year . customer has the right to: control the quality of delivery and adherence to traffic schedule on the routs (lines); perform surveys of passenger traffic on the routes (lines) carrier is obliged to: provide the appropriate level of transport service . municipal electric transport includes enterprises providing transport service, the objects of municipal electric transportation, electricity supplies and communication system . the carrier has the right to: introduce proposals about creating new and making changes to existing routes (lines) as well as clarification of the volume of transport work and work schedule . it can also cut back the passenger transportation on the routes or temporarily change the schedule in case of threat to its safety . the land is transferred to the carrier for use according to the Land Code of Ukraine . maintenance and renewal of rolling stock shall be carried out at the expense of funds of the state and local budgets . within three year after the entry into force of this Law, electricity tariffs set for the population shall be applied for municipal electric transport . social protection and pension provision of the carrier's employees are performed according to the legislation . provision of transport services may be limited or terminated in conditions of emergency or martial law . within three months from the effective day of this Law, the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law .