environmental network legislation is to regulate public relations in the field of development, preservation and rational, inexhaustible use of the environmental network . environmental network is a single territorial system created in order to improve conditions for the development and restoration of the environment . it is aimed at preserving landscape and biodiversity, habitats and growth of valuable species of fauna and flora . environmental network object means an integral part of the environmental network that has a trace of a spatial object . key areas ensure the preservation of the most valuable and typical regional components of landscape and biodiversity . connecting territories provide animal migration and exchange of genetic material . buffer territories provide protection of key and connecting territories from external influences . lands of health-related purpose and their natural resources, as well as recreational lands used for mass recreation and tourism management . land plots with natural vegetative groups which were added to the Green Book of Ukraine; g) territories with some species of fauna and flora added to red book of Ukraine . public administration in the field of formation, preservation and use of the environmental network is implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . powers of the cabinet include: a) ensuring implementation of state policy in the area; b) guiding and coordination of the work of ministries and other central executive bodies . power of the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea includes participation in the development and implementation of the chart of formation . central executive body implements state policy in the field of environmental protection . powers include submitting proposals as for the formation of state policy . local executive bodies and local self-government within their powers provide for: elaboration and implementation of regional and local frameworks and programmes . environmental network design provides for: a) drawing of territories and objects that are included in the lists of the environmental network . regional and local charts of environmental network formation of the autonomous republic of Crimea and regions, as well as local charts are approved by the relevant councils . the consolidated chart of formation of the environmental network of Ukraine is approved by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . the list of key areas of the environment network includes territories and objects of the nature reserve fund, wetlands of international importance . a list of regenerated areas includes lands, which are degraded and unproductive . territories and objects of national implication are included to the lists primary with regard to landscape variation and biodiversity . territorial and object of the nature reserve fund and other territories subject to special protection shall not lead to a change in the regime of their protection and use determined in accordance with the law . state monitoring of the environmental network is carried out in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . citizens and their associations are involved in the discussion of drafts of environmental network charts and the state of their implementation . regional, Kyiv, Sevastopol city state administrations use media to inform the public on the development of environmental chart . control over the formation, preservation and use of the environmental network shall be realised by local authorities and executive bodies within the scope of the powers defined by law . this Law shall enter into force on 1 January 2005 . the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine has to prepare the proposals for amendments to the laws of Ukraine arising from this Law .