the Code of Civil Protection of Ukraine regulates relations related to the protection of people, territories, environment and property . it defines the powers of government authorities, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local authorities, rights and responsibilities of citizens of Ukraine, foreigners and stateless persons, businesses, institutions and organisations . emergency prevention – a set of legal, economic and social, political, organisational and technical, sanitary and other actions to regulate man-made and natural safety . fire equipment – equipment designed to prevent, detect, localise and eliminate fire, protect people, assets and environment against the hazard of fire . emergency zones – specific territory/water areas where human life, health or property is at risk as a result of an emergency . emergency classification – a system in which emergencies are divided into classes and subclasses depending on their nature of origin . high-risk object – an object that is considered under the law to pose a real threat of accident and/or emergency of a man-made or physical nature . the definition of an emergency is defined as a situation within a specific territory or business site within it or water facility with disrupted living conditions . emergency response and dealing with the aftermath – coordinated actions of civil protection entities carried out in accordance with emergency type and level . civil protection forces – emergency response units, specialised services and other civil protection units that provide emergency and other urgent work to eliminate emergency . specialised emergency rescue service – a professional emergency response service that has trained rescue workers and appropriate civil protection equipment . civil protection is the function of the state that protects people, territories, environment and property against emergency through prevention, dealing with the aftermath and providing assistance to affected persons . emergency levels are identified based on consequences caused by emergency, technical and material resources to address it . specialised civil protection service – businesses, institutions, organisations of respective functional area teamed up for civil protection tasks. civil protection is based on the following principles: 1) The state guarantees and ensures in the Constitution the right to protection of life, health and property; 2) Comprehensive approach to addressing problems of civil protection; 3) Priority tasks related to saving the lives and protecting the health of people; 4) Keep risk of emergency at the lowest possible level; 5) Management centralisation, unity of command, subordination, the statutory discipline of quick response rescue services; 6) Transparency, freedom of public information on civil protection other than restrictions established by law functional subsystems of the unified national civil protection system are established by central executive authorities in the respective field of social life . provisions shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection . a territorial subsystem includes authorities and their subordinate civil protection forces . territorial subsystems of the unified national civil protection system act in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblasts of Ukraine, city of Kyiv and city of Sevastopol . provisions shall be approved by the council of ministers or local state administrations . day-to-day operation of the unified national civil protection system shall be established based on normal production, radiation, chemical, seismic, hydrogeological, hydrometeorological, man-made and fire conditions . in the event of an emergency, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea, oblast, Kyiv, or sevastopol city administrations respectively takes a decision on an interim regime of High Alert . the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection, educational and scientific institutions, healthcare facilities (medical divisions) that fall under its management . it is responsible for setting up national-level draft civil protection plan for the peacetime and special period and submits them for approval of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the authority is also responsible for providing training for the functional and territorial subsystem authorities and its units . assigns search and rescue units and emergency services of central and local executive authorities, businesses, institutions and organisations of all ownership types . provides fire security at production facilities, institutions, organisations and other facilities based on the procedure required by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . directs transition of the unified national civil protection system from the regime of peacetime operation to special period operation . identifies and implements activities under national radiation and chemical safety policy . coordinates and controls measures of people and territory protection in case of radiation accidents and emergency related to hazardous chemical spill (emission) sets requirements to radiation protection equipment and search and rescue units . deals with the medical and biosafety aftermath of an emergency . appoints the head of the civil protection agency in the ukraine . approves the procedure of use of air force and equipment in search-and-rescue and other urgent operations in Ukraine . identifies training, refresher training and advanced training procedure of civil protection non-executive and executive staff per set procedure . civil protection powers of other central executive authorities include the following: 1) ensuring civil protection in public life subject to the national policy implemented by respective executive authority; 2) taking actions to protect people and territories in emergency; 3) ensuring civil protection tasks executed by functional subsystem it created; 4) ensuring man-made safety requirements at potentially hazardous facilities, high-risk facilities and other facilities under the governance of the respective authority . civil protection powers of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administrations, local governments include the following: 1) Ensuring that created territorial subsystems and units execute assigned tasks; 2) ensuring compliance with man-made safety requirements at potentially hazardous and other facilities under respective authority that may create a real risk of an accident; 3) ensuring that civil protection facility fund of businesses under the respective authority is maintained; 4) establishing and using material reserves to prevent and respond to an emergency . establishing and using material reserves to prevent and respond to an emergency . monitoring natural environment, sanitary and epidemic situation, sites for disposal of microbiologically contaminated biomaterials . developing and ensuring regional, local civil protection programmes and action plans . supervising created emergency rescue services, units and specialised civil protection services, local and volunteer fire department . civil protection powers of local governments include the following: 1) enforcing civil protection in the respective territory; 2) ensuring task performance by territorial subsystems established by local governments; 3) ensuring man-made and fire safety compliance at businesses under the respective authority which may pose a real risk of accident . ensuring people alert and awareness of the risk of an emergency . providing radiation, chemical, biological and medical protection of people . monitoring natural environment, sanitary and epidemic situation . developing and taking actions to ensure the sustainability of businesses . Article 20. Objectives and responsibilities of businesses in civil protection include the following: 1) Ensuring civil protection activities in businesses; 2) Providing under respective legislation collective and individual protection equipment for employees; 3) Posting information about safety measures and appropriate people behaviour in the event of an emergency . civil protection in a business is provided by civil protection units (officials) established (appointed) by management of the above business . civil protection officials are appointed by the central executive authority responsible for state supervision of man-made and fire safety . citizens of Ukraine have the right to receive information about emergencies or hazardous events . citizens must comply with the rules of conduct, safety rules and rules of acting in an emergency . civil protection forces include: 1) civil protection quick response rescue service; 2) emergency rescue services; 3) Civil protection units . emergency rescue services are divided into: 1) State, regional, municipal, on-site and NGOs services; 2) Specialised and non-specialised; 3) Professional and nonprofessional; 4) NGOs under existing law . civil protection forces can be involved in remediation . state, municipal, on-site services and services of non-governmental organisations established on a professional basis are legal entities . paramilitary service involved in mine-rescue operations is a specialised professional emergency service . emergency rescue personnel is divided into core and support . services include medical emergency services that are part of emergency healthcare system established by the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblast authorities, Kyiv and sevastopol authorities . civil protection quick response rescue service operates within the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection . includes authorities, central-level emergency rescue units, special command emergency rescue unit, special air, marine and other units, state fire units (departments), training centres, units and support units. civil protection quick response rescue service provides emergency rescue services on a contractual basis to high-risk facilities and specific territories owned, possessed or used by businesses . authorities can be restricted within the territories and businesses subject to access control under the Law of Ukraine “On State Secret”. civil protection quick response rescue authorities and units use special vehicles for emergency response management . these vehicles have the priority on road, use beacon lights and siren and special colour coding defined in legal acts . specialised civil protection services are established to provide special operations and civil protection operations . civil protection units are established to manage heavy jobs in response to an emergency, military (combat) actions or acts of terror and conduct rehabilitation work requiring large numbers of people and equipment . volunteers performing emergency prevention or emergency response units have the right to: 1) Receive information about the emergency and required safety measures; 2) Receive and use individual protection equipment during emergency prevention and emergency response . provisions on volunteer civil protection units shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . Ukrainian armed forces, other military units and special law enforcement units established under the existing law of Ukraine can be engaged in emergency response operations . non-governmental organisations can be created to execute specific civil protection operations. civil protection information includes information about forecast or occurred emergencies including classification, exposure and aftermath limits and protection methods . emergency threat or occurrence alert procedure in the communication network is defined in the provision approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . a simple design structure - a fortification, ground floor or basement that reduces combined exposure of people to hazardous emergency aftermath munition impact during the special period . people subject to sheltering: a) largest working shift personnel of a business of the respective civil protection category and located in zones of potential significant destruction of municipalities . b) personnel of nuclear power plants, other nuclear facilities and business staff that ensures work of these plants . businesses owning protection structures maintain the readiness of these structures for the intended use . civil protection structures can be used in peacetime for economic, cultural and everyday purposes . evacuation decisions are made on state, regional, local or on-site level . emergency response operation manager, in his absence head of emergency rescue service can make a decision about urgent evacuation of people from the emergency zone or potential exposure zone . evacuation is ensured by: 1) Establishment of regional, local and on-site evacuation authorities; 2) Evacuation planning; 3) Identification of safe areas fit to accommodate evacuated people and property . in the event of direct threat to life or health, all available vehicles of businesses and people shall be used under legal procedure to evacuate the majority of people . businesses and people provided their vehicles are subject to compensation of the cost of their services and actual losses funded through respective emergency response or threat addressing budget . evacuation procedure is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . protection engineering includes zoning of territories based on existing potentially hazardous facilities . radiation and chemical protection of people and territories based on identification of high-risk facilities . iodine protection of rescue workers involved in radiation accident response operations . use of collective protection equipment, radiation detection and chemical monitoring instrumentation by emergency rescue services, units . pharmacology and radiation protection equipment for iodine protection of people, rescue workers and personnel of facilities of radiation hazard . Article 36. Medical protection, sanitary and epidemic welfare of people includes: 1) delivery of medical assistance and psychological rehabilitation to persons affected by an emergency, rescue personnel and other persons involved in rescue and other urgent operations . biological protection of people, animals and plants includes timely detection of factors and site of spread of biological infection . psychological protection activities aim to reduce and neutralise people's negative mental state and reactions in the event of an emergency threat . emergency training for people is provided: 1) At workplace – working people; 2) At respective educational facilities – pre-school children, school children, university students; 3) At place of residence – the unemployed . training of the employed is mandatory and provided during working hours at the employer's expense . people employed in high fire risk jobs must take special training (fire safety certification) people who received no fire safety training, were not briefed or tested can not be cleared for duty . emergency and fire safety training of school children, university students and pre-school children is mandatory and included in the educational process . the unemployed read instructions and other informational emergency materials, fire safety rules at home and in public on their own . emergency monitoring is a system of continuous surveillance, laboratory and other control to assess people and territory protection status . civil protection state supervision (oversight) is provided in conformity with man-made and fire safety . certification covers emergency rescue services and rescue personnel working on a contractual basis . certification commission of the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection certifies medical emergency service units and personnel . it estimates whether their professional level and health conditions are appropriate to provide assistance for affected persons directly in the emergency zone . after the assessment, the applicant can be refused to receive a certificate, ID and rescue worker badge . rescue worker's certificate, ID and badge can be cancelled on the following ground: 1) retirement or reassignment to a position unrelated to key staff; 2) low practical skills in emergency rescue and other urgent operations, firefighting; 3) rescue worker fails to take advanced training within scheduled time . replacement certificate of emergency rescue service, medical emergency service can be issued in case of loss or damage . 22. Certified emergency rescue services, rescue workers and medical emergency services shall be listed in respective emergency service registries . man-made safety management is part of the production, operation and other activities of the respective officials, business, institution, organisation personnel . man-man safety compliance requirements must be in line with people and territory emergency protection, sanitary welfare, environmental, fire, occupational, construction engineering and industrial safety standards . high-risk facilities establish and operate automatic early emergency detection and alert systems to ensure timely detection of an emergency and alert personnel and people in the potential exposure zone . nuclear power plants, main ammonia, oil and gas pipelines, facilities with large numbers of people establish on-site alert systems . fire safety requirements included in departmental regulations must not contravene standards and regulations . production facilities, residential and other buildings, equipment. vehicles commissioned after construction, reconstruction or technological upgrading must meet fire safety regulatory requirements . declaration form, submission and registration procedure are identified by the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine . declaration is exempt: 1) for trading places, kiosks and containers when their market location matches the plan agreed with state fire authority . businesses belonging to the management of the respective central executive authorities establish state fire departments (units) to provide departmental fire service . fire services established to ensure fire safety at the facilities of the ministry of defense of Ukraine, ministry of internal affairs of Ukraine and national police . local fire service is responsible for ensuring compliance of fire safety rules at these facilities . local communities establish local fire units upon agreement with the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of civil protection . in villages, settlements with no fire departments, the local communities ensure are funded and supported from local budgets and other lawful sources . the central executive authority responsible for the state supervision in man-made and fire safety is authorised to supervise (monitor) the compliance with legal and other regulatory requirements . it carries out state supervision by scheduled and unscheduled checks in accordance with the existing law . a number of measures have been taken to ensure compliance with man-made and fire safety requirements in the construction of buildings and structures . the authorities are responsible for carrying out state supervision and imposing administrative sanctions for the violation of laws and other regulatory documents . the central executive authority responsible for the state supervision in man-made and fire safety must impose sanction required by law . officials of the authority can not be held responsible for legal entities and individuals arising from legitimate sanctions . officials of the central executive authority responsible for the state supervision in man-made and fire safety issue respective requirements, orders and enactments . fire safety issues in case of: a) Failure to comply with fire safety requirements defined in this Code, other regulatory documents, standards and rules . rescue and protection equipment of a business is not ready for intended job . high-risk facility has no civil liability insurance agreement . violation of transport regulations for hazardous substances . construction of buildings and structures that violate legal man-made safety procedure . emergency response and remediation operations are managed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . government authorities, local state administrations, local governments, businesses use the state management system to ensure sustainable management of civil protection entities . emergency control centres at the regional level work together with the emergency response crisis centre (if established) and provide support . emergency response team leader is appointed to provide direct management of rescue and other urgent operations in an emergency . in case of regional-level emergency - one of deputy chairpersons of raion state administration . emergency response team leader orders are binding for all entities involved in emergency response operations, people and businesses within the emergency zone . the emergency response crisis centre is responsible for the management of emergency response and other urgent operations . appointing authority must be able to verify the identity of the emergency team leader . no one has the right to interfere with emergency response leader work . emergency response crisis centre represents the executive body of the emergency response team leader . crisis centre includes personnel of central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy on civil protection . provisional high alert regime is introduced in Ukraine or within its specific area in the event of an emergency . emergency rescue and other urgent operations to deal with the emergency aftermath are free . air search and rescue of affected persons in the air accident (crash) is done by civil protection entities based on their respective competencies . emergency rescue and other urgent operations, firefighting are conducted in the shortest possible time without interruption until completion . in some cases students of civil protection educational facilities may be recruited for emergency response operations . firefighting management and procedure, rights and responsibilities of firefighters are established by the Firefighting Emergency Operations Statute . vital support for affected persons includes basic conditions for life and health of people within the emergency zone, on escape routes and at accommodation facilities for evacuated people based on set standards and regulations . rehabilitation of fire staff is provided by local state administrations, local governments and businesses . emergency response operations are funded from state, local and business budgets . targeted mobilisation can be carried out to respond to a man-made or natural emergency . material damage of the emergency affected is compensated under legal procedure . accommodation of affected persons whose house is no longer habitable due to an emergency is funded by local state administrations, local governments and businesses . building or purchase of houses or flats for affected persons who resided in state or municipal houses shall be funded from targeted state funds . the emergency affected have the right for medical and psychological assistance . minors affected by an emergency are entitled to psychological assistance at spa facilities with medical and psychological rehabilitation centres . evacuated people resettled due to an emergency in other countries are eligible for compensation of damage . Article 90. Training of non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service and rescue workers . civil protection service non-executive staff and non-commissioned officers must take entry-level professional courses . those appointed to mid-level and senior managerial positions must take a refresher or speciality course at respective of civil protection educational facility . Article 91. Training of executives and specialists related to civil protection management is provided under health laws . civil protection methodical and training centres are established to provide training of executives and specialists related to civil protection management . training is done upon request of the state and funded from the national budget of Ukraine . civil protection forces are trained for the intended job during special, demonstration, experimental civil protection exercises . civil protection activities are funded from the national budget of Ukraine, local budgets, budgets of businesses, and other lawful sources . funds allocated by potentially hazardous facilities and high-risk facilities must be at least 0.5 per cent of the gross income of such facility . emergency prevention and response activities are funded under the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . personnel of civil protection management and forces include non-executive and executive staff performing contract-based civil protection services . civil protection service reserve shall be established to enable the manning of civil protection services in mobilisation . labour relations between the management and civil protection forces are regulated under labour law, public service law and signed labour contracts . citizens of Ukraine who completed secondary education, meet qualification requirements and whose personal, business and moral qualities . individuals with a criminal record cannot be employed at civil protection service . individuals who have been under administrative corruption sanctions within the last year can not be employed . in this Code the term "family members" has the meaning specified in the Law of Ukraine . maximum civil protection service time: non-executive, non-commissioned and mid-level staff - up to 50 years; executive staff – up to 55 years; command staff — up to 60 years . contract terminated, executive staff retired owing to: 1) end of contract; 2) age - when they reach maximum service time; 3) health conditions based on the conclusion (act) of the central medical expert commission . civil protection reserve contract shall be entered into voluntarily and signed by the citizen of Ukraine who graduated from civil protection educational facility or retired from military service, fit for civil protection service . reserve contract may be terminated or cancelled for a number of reasons, including systematic breach of contract by non-executive and executive staff . citizens of Ukraine recruited to civil protection service for the first time shall take the oath and sign it in person . rescue worker is the person certified for rescue and other urgent operations, firefighting . citizens acquire the rescue worker status by a decision of respective certification authority . rescue workers follow this Code and regulatory and other civil protection, rescue and/or firefighting documents . only designated officials have the right to interfere with the rescue worker activity during emergency rescue and other urgent operations . during emergency response operations rescue workers must be proactive, dedicated and persistent . rescue workers are held responsible under the law for the Improper fulfilment of their duties . Article 111. Uniforms and insignia of non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service and key staff of state emergency rescue services . provision of ammunition, equipment and individual protection equipment . non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service and key staff of emergency rescue services, emergency medical service are provided with free meals . personnel of management authorities and civil protection forces are provided during the special period with international civil protection identity cards . the state ensures social and legal protection of non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service, management authorities and civil protection forces staff and their family members . non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service have the right to a spa treatment . benefits set out in this part provided that the family total average income in the previous 6 months per one family member is not higher than the income that gives rise to tax benefits . employees who retired with a disability I and II as a result of disease, trauma or injury sustained in course of their service are entitled to spa treatment regardless of their pension type . key staff of professional emergency rescue services must take a yearly medical check-up . extraordinary medical checkup of non-executive or executive staff of civil protection service can be scheduled on the employer's initiative . staff involved in emergency rescue and other urgent operations, or engaged in a 24-hour presence related to emergency response operations, is entitled to free medical and psychological rehabilitation . transport to treatment facility and medical and psychological rehabilitation is paid from maintenance funds . Article 118 provides one-off financial assistance in case of death, trauma, injury, disease, or disability . degree of incapacity of a non-executive or executive of civil protection service sustained while performing his duties . housing needs of non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service and their family members are funded from the state and local budgets . state administrations, local governments provide priority housing . in case civil protection authorities or units don't have such accommodation, the respective civil protection authority or unit rents a temporary accommodation . non-executive and executive staff of civil protection authorities and units retired for disability reasons are entitled to priority accommodation at their appropriately chosen place of residence . students and attendants of educational facilities of the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in civil protection are also entitled to hostel rooms . non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service is entitled to a one-off loan during their entire service under the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . families of nonexecutives and executives who died while on duty requiring improvement of their living conditions have accommodation priority . 50% rent and utility discount (water supply, gas, electricity, heating, etc.) is offered to non-executives and executives of civil protection service and family members they support . benefits included in Part I of this Article are offered when the family average total income per one person in the previous 6 months is no greater than the income that entitles to social benefits . non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service are entitled to settling allowances in the amount and under the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . civil protection volunteers, individuals engaged in case-by-case emergency response operations are remunerated for the firefighting, fire prevention activity and duty services . non-executive and executive staff of civil protection service can take a leave . they are entitled to annual regular leave at a full material compensation and financial recreational support in the amount of monthly wage . leave for military activities and persons of equivalent status is 45 days . annual regular leave doesn't account for the time required to arrive at the destination and then return within Ukraine . leave of less than 10 days can be granted at the request of a non-executive and executive of the civil protection service at the time of the next year annual leave . leaves of up to 14 calendar days in winter are the main holiday and winter school holiday is the additional holiday. non-executives and executives of civil protection service approved for study or an official trip outside Ukraine, are entitled to annual regular leave which they have to fully use before the school or departure outside Ukraine . family leave at a full material compensation is granted in the following cases: 1) marriage - for up to 10 calendar days; 2) critical health condition or death of a family member . family leave is granted when a non-executive and executive of the civil protection service has used his annual regular leave and other additional leaves . total continuous leave from work due to temporary incapacity as a result of disease and sick leave shouldn't be over 4 months . non-executive and executive staff of the civil protection service to be retired are entitled at their request to annual regular leave . in case the leave is more than 10 calendar days they are entitled to additional time to arrive at the destination and then return . in case a non-executive and executive of the civil protection service retires and didn't use annual regular leave he can take the unused leave with the consequent retirement . unused part of leave is granted following the procedure provided in Part VI of this Article . emergency registry is kept under the procedure identified by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . central executive authorities, council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea, local state administrations, local governments, businesses must keep emergency registry . emergency rescue management includes respective emergency prevention, localisation and response services, other contractual services . emergency response assistance is provided to foreign countries based on assistance request made by respective authority of the county affected by an emergency . decision on requesting international assistance is made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . civil protection authorities and forces are monitored under the procedure established by the Constitution and laws of Ukraine . civil protection law violation liability 1. Individuals responsible for the violation of civil protection laws are accountable under the law . this Code takes effect on the date following the publishing date and is enforced starting from 1 July 2013 . law of Ukraine "on fire safety" was enacted on january 1, 1994 . law of ukraine "on civil defence forces of Ukraine" came into force on july 1, 2002 . u.s. law on emergency rescue services came into effect on june 1, 2012 . president of Ukraine v. yanukovych city of kyiv 2 october 2012 no 5403-vi .