cross-border co-operation shall mean joint actions aimed at establishing and deepening the economic, social, scientific, technological, environmental, cultural and other relations . euroregion shall mean an organisational form of cross- border cooperation carried out under bilateral or multilateral agreements . the purpose of such association shall be to encourage, support and develop for the benefit of the population . participants shall mean legal entities and individuals, public organisations . cross-border co-operation projects (programmes) shall mean a set of actions aimed at solving specific joint tasks and meeting the interests of territorial communities . the legal basis of cross border co-opération shall be the constitution of Ukraine, international treaties regulating the relations in this field ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . state policy on cross-border co-operation shall be based on the principles of legal validity, clear distribution of tasks, powers and responsibilities among entities . entities may enter into agreements in certain fields, providing mutual assistance in case of emergencies . under the legislation of ukraine, entities may choose other forms not prohibited by legislation . general co-ordination of cross-border co-operation shall be ensured by a central executive authority shaping and enforcing the state regional policy of Ukraine . other central executive authorities shall participate in the coordination and development of cross - border co -operation subject to their competence . the agreements shall regulate legal, organisational, economic and other aspects of cooperation . the status, functions, powers and sources of financing of the cross-border co-operation bodies shall be determined by international treaties of Ukraine . Founders and/or members of the Euroregion co-operative association shall be territorial communities represented by their representative bodies and their associations . the main type of activity of the euroregion co -operation association shall develop and implementation of joint initiatives, actions, projects, programmes and strategies . territorial communities may be founders and/or members of the Euroregion co-operation association on the territory of the council of Europe member state . agreement on forming the euroregion association shall contain name of the association, list of founding members, its location, period of existence (limited or unlimited) charter shall require specification of: names, location, goal, tasks, types of activity of the euro region . charter shall specify procedures for appointing, electing or approving members, replacing them, dismissing them . the agreement on forming the Euroregion co-operation association, the charter of such an association shall be drawn up in the language of a state on the territory of which it is located . sources of financing for the activity of the association may include: one-time or periodic contributions, deduction of founders and members . in case of winding-up of the Euroregion co-operation association, its property and other funds shall be transferred to one or several associations of a relevant type . the main principles of state support for the development of cross-border cooperation shall include: impartiality, openness and economic feasibility . concentration of financial resources on the most feasible projects (programmes) provision of legal, organisational, methodological, information aid and support to entities and participants in cross-border co-operation of Ukraine . state financial support shall be provided to cross-boundary projects (programmes) which have been selected on a competitive basis . programmes, which have received financing under internal technical assistance programmes, shall be recognised as a priority . entities of cross-border co-operation of Ukraine shall organise and coordinate the work on preparing and implementing the cross-boundary cooperation projects (programmes) and coordinate their implementation . Expenditures, including the necessity of functioning of cross - border co -operation bodies, shall be made at the expenses of the State Budget of Ukraine . scope of state financial support of the development of cross-border co-operation shall be determined in the law on the State Budget of Ukraine for a relevant year . the scope of funds allocated by the entities of cross border co -operation of . ukraine for the implementation of state . cross border cooperation development programmes approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine .