the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine determines the jurisdiction and powers of general courts in civil disputes and other cases stipulated by this Code, establishes the procedure for civil proceedings . the task of civil proceedings shall be a fair, impartial and timely consideration and resolution of civil cases . every person shall have the right to apply to the court for protection of his/her violated, unrecognised or disputed rights, freedoms or legitimate interests . the parties may agree on the transfer of the dispute to arbitration court by agreement of the parties, except as provided by law . the court shall respect the honour and dignity of all trial participants . cases in courts shall be considered orally and openly, except as provided for by this Code . the court may remove from the courtroom persons who obstruct the conduct of a court hearing . consideration of a case in a closed court hearing shall be conducted in cases when an open court hearing may result in the disclosure of secret or other information protected by law . personal papers, letters, recordings of telephone conversations, telegrams may be announced in court only with the consent of the persons specified by the Civil Code of Ukraine . a judgement adopted in the open court hearing shall be publicly announced . if the trial was held in the closed court hearing, only the introductory and operative parts of a judgment shall be announced publicly . any person who is not a party to a case has the right to access judgments . civil proceedings in the courts shall be administered in the state language . trial participants who are not proficient or insufficiently proficient in the language have the right to make statements, provide explanations, appear in court and put motions in their native language or the language they speak . when considering a case, the court shall be guided by the principle of the rule of law . court shall apply the 1950 convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms . if the court concludes that a law or other legal act contradicts the constitution of Ukraine, it shall not apply such law or act . the court shall determine, within the limits established by this Code, the procedure for administering proceedings in accordance with the pro rata principle . civil proceedings shall be conducted on an adversarial basis . the collection of evidence in civil cases shall not be the responsibility of the court . the unified judicial information and telecommunication system shall operate in courts . claims and other statements, appeals and other procedural documents shall be subject to mandatory registration in the system . lawyers, notaries, private bailiffs, arbitration trustees, judicial experts, state authorities, local governments and business entities shall register official e-mail addresses . registration in the unified judicial information and telecommunication system shall not deprive the right to submit documents to the court in paper form . the court shall consider a case on the basis of the case files in electronic format . if it is impossible for the court to consider the case in electronic form for technical reasons for more than five days, the case shall be considered in paper-form . the case parties shall have the right to legal aid . failure to comply with a judgment shall be the basis for liability established by law . civil jurisdiction in civil cases shall be limited to the territory of the ukraine . the court of first instance shall have exclusive jurisdiction over civil cases . civil proceedings shall be administered according to the rules provided for in this Code . writ proceedings are intended for consideration of cases upon applications for recovering insignificant amount of money, which are undisputed or the applicant is not aware of their existence . the conditions, under which the court has the right to consider claims for recovery of money shall be determined by this Code. a dispute falling within the jurisdiction of a general court may be referred to a court of another state . the parties shall have the right to refer the dispute to arbitration court, except as provided by law .  2. Instance jurisdiction Article 23. All cases to be settled in civil proceedings shall be considered by local general courts as courts of the first instance .  3. Jurisdiction of cases, in which one of the parties is a court or a judge, shall be determined by the general rules of the jurisdiction . claims against an individual shall be filed in court at his/her place of residence or stay registered under the procedure established by law, unless otherwise provided by law . claims related to compensation for damages caused by injury, other damage to health or death of an individual, or damage caused by a criminal offence may also be filed at the plaintiff's registered place . in cases on recognition of assets as unfounded and on cases of their recovery in state revenue, the adopted judgments shall be appealed to the appellate court . claims related to compensation for damages to property of individuals or legal entities may also be filed at the place of damage . claims against a defendant, whose place of residence or stay is unknown, shall be filed in the location of the defendant's property . the plaintiff shall have the right to choose between several courts to which the case is subject under this Article, except for the exclusive jurisdiction established by Article 30 of this Code . claims for protection of violated, unrecognised or disputed rights, freedoms or interests of individuals may also be presented at the plaintiff's place of residence or stay . a counter-claim and a claim of a third party shall be filed to the court at the venue of the original claim . the court shall transfer a case to another court if it belongs to the territorial jurisdiction of another court or it is impossible to form a new court for consideration of the case . a case transferred from one court to another under the procedure established by Article 31 of this Code shall be received for proceedings by the court, to which it is sent . Article 32. Prohibition of jurisdictional disputes 1. Disputes between courts about jurisdiction shall be prohibited . a joint chamber shall consist of two judges elected by the conference of judges of the relevant court . if the case is to be considered by a panel comprising more than three judges, such panel shall consist of judges from the permanent panel of judges . unresolved court cases may be transferred for automated re-distribution of cases . substitute judges shall be appointed for a term of one year . a case initiated by a single judge or a panel of judges shall be considered by the same judge . an application for review of a judgment due to newly-discovered circumstances must be considered . the results of the automated distribution (re-distribution) shall be recorded in a protocol . civil cases in the courts of first instance shall be considered by a single judge . cases on recognition of assets as unfounded and their recovery into state revenue . review of judgments of the first instance courts shall be carried out by the cassation courts . the judgments shall be reviewed due to newly-discovered circumstances . a judge may not consider a case and shall be subject to recusal (self-recusal) in the following cases: . the judge shall not have the right to disclose opinions expressed in the deliberation room . a judge shall also be subject to recusal (self-recusal) under circumstances established by Article 37 of this Code . judge who participated in the case consideration by the court of first instance shall not participate in the same case in the courts of appeal and cassation . a judge who participated in the case review by the appellate court shall not participate in the consideration of the same case by the cassation courts or the courts of first instance . an expert or specialist may also not take part in the proceedings if he/she was or is in official or other dependence on the case parties . recusal (self-recusal) shall be declared no later than on the beginning of a preparatory meeting or the first court hearing, if a case is considered in accordance with the simplified action proceedings . recusals of judges shall be resolved by the court that considers the case . the issue of recusal of a judge shall be resolved by the court that considers a case . if less than three judges administer justice in the court, the issue is resolved in deliberation . failure by the case parties to attend a court hearing does not prevent the court from considering the issue . recusal of a court hearing secretary, expert, specialist, interpreter shall be decided by the composition of the court that considers a case . failure by a person against whom the recusals has been filed to attend a hearing shall not prevent the court from considering the issue . the court shall deliver a ruling based on the outcome of the resolution of an application . for more information, see the website of the slovak bar association . the case parties shall be the participants (parties) of arbitration, persons who did not participate in arbitration, as well as the parties to the arbitration . the guilty persons shall bear the responsibility established by law for misleading the court regarding the fact circumstances of a case . if a party fail to fulfil his/her obligations, the court shall apply the procedural coercion measures provided by this Code . a case party shall be released from the obligation to send to other case parties if he/she submits documents to the court in electronic form . a court may recognise actions that contradict the task of civil proceedings as an abuse of procedural rights . the court is obliged to take measures to prevent abuse of procedural rights . a minor or juvenile shall also have the following rights during the consideration of a case . the court shall have the right to leave without consideration or return appeal, application, petition . court shall explain to a minor or juvenile his/her rights and possible consequences . minors between the ages of 14 and eighteen may personally exercise civil procedural rights . a plaintiff shall have the right to withdraw a claim (all or part of the claims) a plaintiff shall have the right to increase or decrease the scope of claims . in a case considered under the rules of the simplified action proceedings, a change in the subject or grounds of a claim shall be allowed . the parties may conclude a settlement agreement at any stage of the proceedings . a claim may be filed jointly by several plaintiffs or against several defendants . court of first instance shall be authorised to involve a co-defendant at the plaintiff's request . a defendant replaced by another defendant shall have the right to claim court costs . third parties declaring independent claims on the subject of a dispute may intervene in a case before the end of the preparatory proceedings or before the first court hearing . the national agency on corruption prevention may join as a third party, making no separate claims with respect to the matter in dispute . third parties who do not declare independent claims shall have the procedural rights and obligations established by Article 43 of this Code . the court shall involve the successor of the relevant party or third party in any stage of the trial . if a party acquires a right in relation to a third party, such party must notify that person of the proceedings commencement . in cases established by law, state authorities, local governments, individuals and legal entities may apply to the court to protect the rights, freedoms and interests of other individuals . the Authorised Human Rights Representative of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine may personally or through his/her representative apply to court with a claim (application), to participate in proceedings . a prosecutor may participate in the consideration of cases on their claims, as well as may intervene on their own initiative . a prosecutor who refers to the court on behalf of the state shall substantiate in a statement of claim or other statement, or the petition, the violation of state interests, the need to protect them, the grounds for referral . in case of initiating proceedings in accordance with a claim of a person, he/she acquires the status of plaintiff . state authorities and local governments may be involved by the court or participate in the case on their own initiative to submit opinions . authorities and other persons who have applied to the court in the interests of other persons under Article 56 of this Code shall have the procedural rights and obligations of the person in whose interests they act, except for the right to make a settlement agreement . a party, a third party, as well as a person who by law has right to refer to court on behalf of other person, may participate in the proceedings in person and (or) through a representative. personal participation in a person's case shall not deprive them of the right to have a representative in this case . the rights, freedoms and interests of minors under the age of fourteen shall be protected in court by their parents, adoptive parents, guardians . representatives may entrust the case consideration in court to other persons . a person who participates in the case as a court secretary, expert, specialist, interpreter and witness may not be a representative in court . judges, prosecutors, investigators, employees of operative-investigative units may not act as representatives . the powers of representatives of the parties and other case parties must be confirmed by documents . the powers of a lawyer as a representative shall be confirmed by a power-of-attorney or a warrant issued under the Law of Ukraine "On the bar and legal practice" the conformity of the copy of the document confirming the representative's powers may be certified by the judge's signature . a court may appoint or replace a legal representative upon recommendation of the guardianship authority . the court may appoint or replace a legal representative at the request of a minor or juvenile, if it is in his/her best interests . a representative empowered to conduct a case in court shall exercise, on behalf of the person he represents, his procedural rights and obligations . the grounds and procedure for termination of representation by power-of-attorney shall be determined by the Civil Code of Ukraine . an assistant judge may exercise his/her powers in the absence of the secretary of the court hearing . a court clerk shall issue court summons and notifications, and report to the presiding judge . the court administrator's requirements related to the performance of duties shall be binding upon the trial participants and other persons present in the courtroom . witnesses may be any person who is aware of any circumstances relating to the case . incapable individuals, persons registered or treated in a psychiatric medical facility may not be interrogated as witnesses . witnesses may testify in his/her native language or in the language he/she speaks . an individual shall have no right to refuse to testify, except for testimony about himself or herself, family members or close relatives . article 72. Expert 1. A person who has the special knowledge necessary to clarify the relevant circumstances of the case may be an expert . a person with a scientific degree and a recognised specialist in the field of law may be involved as a legal expert . a specialist shall have the right to know the purpose of his/her summons . an interpreter shall be allowed by a court ruling upon the case party's application . the participation of an interpreter who is qualified to communicate with the deaf is mandatory in the cases, where one of the participants is a person with a hearing impairment . the interpreter shall appear in court upon his/her summons, to provide a complete and accurate interpretation . he/she shall have the right to ask questions in order to clarify the interpreted material . parties shall have the right to substantiate the properness of specific evidence . the court shall not consider evidence that does not relate to the subject of proof . each party shall prove the circumstances, to which it refers as the basis of its claims or objections . court may oblige other case parties to provide relevant evidence of the commission of these actions or the existence of a certain event . the court may not collect evidence relating to the dispute subject matter on its own initiative . circumstances recognised by case parties shall not be subject to proof if the court has no reasonable doubt as to the authenticity of these circumstances . the court shall issue a ruling on accepting the party's refusal to recognise the circumstances . if the court accepts the refusal, the circumstances shall be proved in the general procedure . the parties and other case parties shall submit evidence in the case directly to the court . the defendant, the third party who does not make independent claims on the dispute subject matter, shall submit evidence to the court . in case of failure to submit the evidence within the period established by law for objective reasons, the case party shall notify the court in writing . a case party has the right to file a petition to request for evidence by the court . the petition must be filed within the period specified in Article 83 of this Code . any person who has evidence shall provide it at the court's demand . the General Court of Appeal may demand evidence at the location of the evidence . written, physical and electronic evidence that cannot be brought to court shall be examined at their location . the absence of the case parties shall not constitute an obstacle to the examination . court may examine the website (page), other places of data storage on the internet . court may appoint an expert examination to establish and record the content thereof . perishable physical evidence shall be immediately examined by a court . the court hearing the case or the application for the provision of evidence shall instruct the relevant court to take certain procedural actions . a ruling on a court order shall be immediately executed by the court to which it is addressed . the court shall evaluate the relevance, admissibility, reliability of each piece of evidence, as well as the sufficiency and interrelationship of the evidence . testimony of a witness shall mean a statement of circumstances relevant to the case . testimony from other people's words may not be admissible evidence . parties, third parties and their representatives may be interrogated as witnesses . answer to questions shall be submitted to the court by a case party in the form of a witness statement . witness statement shall indicate the name (surname, name and patronymic), place of residence (stay) and place of work of the witness . the case party shall have the right to refuse to provide answers to the following questions . written evidence shall mean documents (except for electronic documents) that contain information about the circumstances relevant to the proper dispute resolution . documents received by facsimile or other similar means of communication shall be accepted by the court for consideration as written evidence . a foreign official document subject to diplomatic or consular legalisation may be a written evidence if it is legalised in the prescribed manner . foreign official documents shall be recognised as written evidence without their legalisation in cases provided by international treaties, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . electronic evidence means information in electronic (digital) form containing data on the circumstances relevant to the case . electronic evidence shall be submitted in the original or in an electronic copy certified by an electronic digital signature . case parties shall have the right to submit electronic evidence in paper copies . the expert conclusion shall mean a detailed description of the research conducted by the expert, drawn up in the manner prescribed by law . issues of law cannot be the subject of an expert conclusion . the court shall have the right to summon an expert to provide oral explanations on his/her opinion . the expert or expert institution shall be elected by the parties by mutual consent . if necessary, several experts may be appointed to prepare one conclusion . the court shall motivate such rejection or change of the questions proposed by the case parties . court may hear an expert on the wording of the issue that needs to be clarified . court shall warn the expert of criminal responsibility for a knowingly false conclusion . appointment of an expert examination by a court shall be obligatory in case of petition . an expert who has drawn up a conclusion on the application of a case party shall have the same rights and obligations as an expert . the materials necessary for the expert examination shall be provided to the expert by the court, or by the case party . experts shall provide an opinion on their own behalf and be personally responsible for it . an expert conclusion for a court shall not have the preliminary determined force . the court's rejection of the expert conclusion must be motivated in the judgment . each expert's conclusion shall indicate the kinds of research executed and what facts were established . a single conclusion shall be drawn up and signed, based on the results of research, generalisation and evaluation of the results obtained by experts . if the expert conclusion is found to be incomplete or unclear, the court may order an additional examination, which shall be entrusted to the same or another expert (experts)  7. Expert conclusion in the field of law . court may use other methods of securing evidence determined by the court . application for provision of evidence may be filed both before and after filing a statement of claim . applicant shall file a claim within ten days from the date of the ruling . if a ruling on providing evidence at the time of its revocation was executed in whole or in part, it may be used in another case . an application for provision of evidence in a case submitted to international commercial arbitration, arbitration court, shall be submitted to the appellate court at the location of the debtor or evidence in respect of which the party requests provision measures, or the place of arbitration . the application shall stipulate: 1) name of the court where the application is filed; 2) full title (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic) (for individuals) of the applicant . application for provision of evidence shall be considered no longer than five days from the date of its receipt by the court . the court may provide evidence without notifying other persons who may obtain the status of case parties . if the application is satisfied, the court shall indicate in the ruling the evidence, as well as the actions to be taken to ensure it . the court may order the applicant to provide compensation for damages caused by the provision of evidence . the court shall set reasonable period for implementing the procedural actions . a procedural period shall begin on the day following the relevant calendar date . the period calculated in month shall end on the last day of the last month of the period . if the expiration of a period falls on a weekend, holiday or other non-working day . the court on the case party's application shall renew the missed procedural period established by law if it finds the reasons for its omission valid . omission of the period established by law or court to the case party shall not release such party from the obligation to take the appropriate procedural action . court summons and notifications shall be executed by court writs of summons . summoned persons shall have sufficient time to appear in court and prepare to participate in the trial, but not later than five days before the hearing . a party or his/her representative may be issued writs of summons to be served on trial participants . the court summons may be served directly in court, and in the case of adjournment it may be notified against a receipt . legal entities and individual entrepreneurs shall be served at the address of location (residence) specified in the unified state register of legal entities, individual entrepreneurs and public organisations . writ of summons shall contain: defendant's name, address, telephone number, e-mail address . summons to be published on official website of the Ukrainian Judiciary no later than ten days . announcement of restraining order to be placed 24 hours before date of hearing . procedure for publishing announcements on the web-portal shall be determined by regulations . writ of summons must indicate name, address, function of summoned person . announcement on summons shall indicate data specified in clause 1–7 and 9 . summons-notification shall contain the name and address of the court, the name of the case . court writs of summons addressed to individuals shall be handed to them against a receipt . if the addressee has not been identified at the place of residence, the summons shall be served against the receipt to any of the adult family members living with him/her . service of the court summons to the representative of the case party shall be considered as delivery to this person as well . trial participants shall be obliged to inform the court about the change of their place of residence or location during the proceedings . if the court has not been notified of the reasons for non-appearance at the court hearing, it shall be considered that the trial participants did not appear in court without a reasonable excuse . if the defendant's whereabouts in cases of recovering alimony or compensation for damage caused by injury, other damage to health or death of an individual is unknown, the court shall issue a ruling declaring him/her wanted . the court may oblige the parties to deposit into the court's deposit account a predetermined amount of court costs related to the proceedings . the court may oblige the case party to pay beforehand (in advance) the costs associated with the relevant proceedings . if the petition is filed by several case parties, the required amount of money shall be paid in advance in equal shares by the relevant case parties . the amount of the security for costs related to the professional legal aid shall be determined by the court . in case of non-payment, the court shall have the right to leave the claim without consideration . the court may postpone the payment of the court fee or allow to pay it in installments . costs for legal aid of a lawyer shall be borne by the parties, except in cases of providing legal aid at the expense of the state . the amount of costs for the lawyer's services shall be commensurate with the complexity of the case and the works performed by the lawyer . in case of non-compliance with the requirements of part 4 of this Article, the court may, at other party's request, reduce the amount . costs of parties and their representatives related to appearing in court shall be borne by the parties . a witness shall be reimbursed for the costs of the summons related to moving to another settlement and renting accommodation . compensation for lost earnings or time-off from regular employment shall be calculated in proportion to the amount of the minimum wage . court has the right to seize the money or property of such a party to secure the claim . the court may reduce the amount of costs for the services of an expert, specialist, interpreter, which are subject to distribution between the parties . a person who has provided evidence at the request of a court may demand payment of monetary compensation . the court fee shall be imposed on the parties in proportion to the amount of the satisfied claims . other court costs related to the proceedings shall be carried by the defendant, in case of the claim dismissal, the plaintiff, in the case of partial claim satisfaction . the court shall take into account the following when deciding on the distribution of court costs between the parties . if the amount of court costs claimed for reimbursement significantly exceeds the amount stated in the preliminary (approximate) calculation, the court may refuse the party in whose favour the judgment was adopted to reimburse court costs . if both parties are exempt from court costs, they shall be reimbursed by the state in the manner prescribed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. a court may impose court costs on both parties in proportion to the amount of satisfied claims . the court may oblige the party on which a larger amount of costs is imposed to pay the difference to the other party . legal costs of a third party who does not make independent claims on the subject of the dispute shall be collected in his/her favour from the party determined under this Article . in case of waiver of the claim, the costs incurred by the plaintiff shall not be reimbursed by the defendant . if the parties at the time of concluding the settlement agreement did not provide for the order of the court costs distribution . measures of procedural coercion shall mean the procedural actions taken by a court in cases specified by this Code . court may order temporary seizure of evidence for examination by a court . in case of repeated actions, the court shall announce a break and provide a time for his/her replacement . a witness who did not appear at the court hearing without a good reason may be summoned . court shall issue a ruling on compulsory attendance, stipulating the name of the individual subject to the compulsory attendance . the ruling shall be submitted to the court for enforcement to the relevant body of the National Police of Ukraine . persons who cannot be interrogated in accordance with Article 70 of this Code, as well as minors or juveniles, pregnant women, persons with disabilities of groups I and II, persons caring for children under the age of six or children with disabilities shall not be subject to compulsory attendance. court may impose a fine in the amount of from 1 to 10 times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons . ruling to impose fine may be appealed to a court of higher instance . security for claim shall be allowed both before filing a statement of claim and at any stage of the proceedings . the court may take measures to secure the claim in the manner and on the grounds established by this Code . the claim may be secured by: 1) seizure of property and (or) funds belonging to or subject to transfer or payment to the defendant and held by him or her or other persons . not allowed to secure the claim by seizing wages, pensions and scholarships . this requirement shall not apply to claims on recovering alimony, for damages caused by injury, other damage to health or due to death of an individual . perishable items may not be seized in the process of excluding an insolvent bank from the market . it shall not be allowed to secure a claim by prohibiting the defendant to perform certain actions . property (assets) or funds of a client of an insolvent bank may be transferred . the transferred property or funds shall remain encumbered according to the court ruling . restrictions shall not apply to securing the claim by suspending decisions, acts of the director or employer . it shall not be allowed to take measures to secure the claim which consist in (or result in) suspension, postponement, discontinuation or other interference in the process of tender, auction, bidding, tender or other public tender procedures . an application for securing the claim in the form of seizure of a seagoing vessel shall be submitted in writing . it shall stipulate the full title (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic) for an individual entrepreneur, responsible for the maritime claim . the application shall be accompanied by documents confirming the payment of the court fee in the prescribed manner and amount. an application for securing a claim in a case submitted to international commercial arbitration, arbitration court, shall be filed . the applicant shall file a statement of claim within ten days from the date of the ruling to secure the claim . if the claim is not secured within 30 days, the claim shall be deemed to have been secured . an application for securing the claim in the form of seizure of a seagoing vessel shall be considered by the court no later than two days from the date of its receipt . the court may summon the person who filed the application, to provide explanations or additional evidence confirming the need to secure the claim . assets with the value equal to or exceeding 200 times the minimum wage set as of 1 January of the relevant year, shall be transferred with the owner's written consent . Depending on the circumstances of the case, the court may secure the claim in whole or in part . the court shall specify in the ruling on the seizure of the vessel the period during which the person responsible for the maritime claim must file such a claim . counter-security is carried out by depositing money in the deposit account of the court . if the plaintiff is not able to pay, the court may also apply a bank guarantee . the court shall be obliged to take other actions to eliminate potential damages of the defendant . counter-security shall be cancelled if within twenty days from the day the relevant judgment or ruling has entered into force, the defendant or another person whose rights or legally protected interests have been violated, will not file a claim on compensation for damages in the manner prescribed by Article 159 of this Code . the court shall cancel the ruling on securing the claim and on counter-securing . counter-security may be revoked by the court at any time at the reasoned request of the defendant or another person whose rights or legally protected interests are violated . funds deposited by the person on the court's deposit account for the purpose of counter security shall be returned to the person who provided it . in case of cancellation of measures to secure the claim on the grounds provided for in parts 13, 14 of Article 158 of this Code, the counter-secure shall be cancelled . a court ruling on securing the claim shall be immediately enforceable from the date of its approval, regardless of its appeal and the opening of enforcement proceedings . a ruling on seize of a seagoing vessel shall be the basis for the detention of the vessel or restriction of its movement in the port where such vessel is located . in the event of non-compliance with the ruling to secure the claim, the defendant (another person) shall be liable under the law . the court may cancel the measures to secure the claim on its own initiative or at the reasoned request of the case party . the court ruling on the cancellation of the measures on securing the claim taken by the court, or on the refusal to cancel the security for the claim may be appealed . duplicate ruling to cancel the measures on securing the claim shall be sent to the applicant . funds deposited by the defendant (another person) on the court's account shall be returned . measures to secure the claim, taken by the court before filing the statement of claim, shall be cancelled . in case of closing the proceedings or leaving the claim without consideration for reasons other than those specified in part 1 of Article 155 of this Code . court order is a special form of a judgment issued by a court . court order may be issued if: 1) a claim has been filed for the recovery of the amount of salary and average earnings accrued but not paid to the employee during the delay in payment . in the case of securing the claim, the compensation is performed primarily at the expense of the costs for counter-security . a person shall have the right to apply to the court with the requirements specified in part 1 of this Article, in a writ or simplified action proceedings of his/her choice . an application for the issuance of a court order shall be submitted to the . court of first instance under the general rules of jurisdiction established by this Code . a court fee in the amount established by law shall be charged for submission of an application . the applicant shall have the right to withdraw the application before its consideration by the court . a judge shall refuse to issue a . court order if the application is filed in violation of Article 163 of this Code . judge shall issue ruling on refusal to issue a court order no later than ten days from the date of receipt by the court of the application for issuance of court order . if the debtor's location specified in the application is entered to the unified state register of legal entities, individual entrepreneurs and public organisations, the judge shall check the location . if the debtor in the application for issuance of a court order indicates an individual who is not an entrepreneur, the judge shall apply to the relevant authority of the registered place of stay and place of residence of the person . a judge may use the data from the unified state demographic registry to determine the jurisdiction . court shall consider the application for issuance of a court order within five days . if an individual who is not an entrepreneur is indicated as a debtor, it shall be considered . court order shall contain: 1) the date when the order was issued; 2) name of the court . the court order shall be drawn up and signed by the judge in two counterparts . after issuing a court order, not later than the next day, the court shall send its copy (text) containing information about the web address of such a judgment in the unified state register of court decisions . an application for revocation of a court order shall be submitted to the court in written form . the application shall be signed by the debtor or his/her representative . document confirming the payment of court fees shall be attached to the application . application for revocation of a court order shall be submitted to the judge appointed under the procedure established by Article 33 of this Code no later than the next day . in the absence of grounds for returning the application, the judge shall issue a ruling to revoke the court order . court may amend the court order, declare it unenforceable, postpone it or authorise its enforcement in instalments in the manner prescribed by Articles 432, 435 of this Code . the court may oblige a state authority or a local government to submit a relevant statement on the merits . a court may allow a case party to submit additional explanations on a particular issue . the statement of claim shall be submitted to the court in written form and signed by the plaintiff or his/her representative, or another person . it shall contain: 1) name of the court of first instance where the application is filed; 2) full title (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic, for individuals) of the parties and other case parties; 3) indication of the cost of claim; reasonable calculation of amounts collected or disputed . if the claim is filed by a person exempt from payment of court fees under the law, it shall indicate the grounds for exemption of the plaintiff from payment . the cost claim shall be determined as follows: 1) in lawsuits for recovery of funds, it is equal to the amount that is collected, or the disputed amount under the executive or other document . in claims for termination of the rent (lease) contract, it will be a sum of payments for the use of property or residential property for the period remaining until the end of if the cost of claim determined by the plaintiff obviously does not correspond to the actual value of the disputed property, the amount of the court fee shall be determined in advance by the court . the rules of this Article on the submission of documents' copies shall not apply to claims arising from employment, as well as compensation for damage caused by a criminal offence or injury . article 178. defence 1. The defendant shall set out the objections to the claim in the statement of defence . the defence shall contain: 1) title (name) of the plaintiff and case number; 2) full title (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic) for individuals . defence shall be signed by the defendant or his/her representative . defence shall be filed within the period established by the court, which may not be less than fifteen days from the date of service of the ruling to initiate proceedings . a power-of-attorney or other document confirming the powers of the defendant's representative shall be attached to the defence . the court shall consider the case based on the available materials . third party's explanations to the claim or defence shall be signed by the third party or his/her representative . the court shall set a time limit that will allow other case participants to receive an objection in advance . statements, petitions and objections shall be submitted in written or oral form . the requirement to indicate the identification code of a legal entity in the application on the merits, complaint, statement, petition or objection applies only to legal entities registered under the legislation of Ukraine . a foreign legal entity shall submit a document that is proof of its legal personality under the relevant foreign law (registration certificate, extract from the commercial register, etc.). the plaintiff shall have the right to file a petition for consideration of the case . the court shall adopt a ruling to leave the statement of claim without motion . if the plaintiff has not eliminated the deficiencies within the prescribed period, the statement shall be considered as not submitted . the judge shall return the statement of claim no later than five days from the date of its receipt . if a statement on the dispute settlement has been received before the ruling on the opening of the procedure in case is approved, the court fee paid for filing the claim shall not be refunded . the rules of this Part shall not apply to statements on securing the evidence or statements of claim . a judge shall refuse to open the proceedings if the statement is not subject to consideration in civil proceedings . such a ruling shall be adopted no later than five days from the date of receipt of the statement . the court shall open proceedings within five days from the date of receipt of the statement of claim or statement on the elimination of deficiencies filed under Article 185 of this Code . if the defendant is an individual who does not have the status of an entrepreneur, the court must open proceedings no later than the next day . the ruling to refuse to open proceedings may be appealed . if the issue of involving third parties was resolved at the opening of proceedings, the plaintiff shall send copies of the statement of claim with appendices to such third parties . a judge may also use the data of the unified state demographic register for the purpose of determining jurisdiction . if the information received by the court does not make it possible to establish the place of residence (stay) of the individual registered under the procedure established by law, the court shall decide on the opening of proceedings in the case . a single statement of claim may combine several claims related to the basis of origin or the evidence submitted . a court may separate the claims on the merits, if this fosters the task of civil proceedings . cases being considered by the court, in case of combining them into one proceeding, shall be transferred for consideration to the judge who opened the proceedings before the other judges . tasks of preparatory proceedings shall be as follows: final determination of the subject of the dispute and the nature of the disputed legal relations . ruling to open proceedings shall be sent to case parties, as well as other persons, if they are required to provide the evidence . the defendant shall have the right to submit a defence to the statement of claim . a counter-claim shall be accepted for joint consideration with the original claim if both claims are interrelated and joint consideration is appropriate . a counter-claim filed in violation of the requirements established by part 1 of this Article shall be returned to the applicant by a court ruling . provisions of Articles 193 and 194 of this Code shall apply to third party's claims who make independent claims on the subject matter of the dispute . a preparatory hearing shall be held by the court with a notification to be sent to the case parties . a preparatory hearing shall be held under the rules established by Chapter 6 of this Section . the court shall address the statements and petitions of the case parties . it may decide on the appointment of an expert examination, summons to a court hearing . the court shall postpone the preparatory hearing in the following cases . involvement of a third party to the participation or entry into the case, replacement of an improper defendant . the court may announce a break in the preparation hearing if necessary . the plaintiff shall have the right to file a response to the defence . the defendant may file an objection to the plaintiff's response . in a preparatory hearing, the court shall rule on procedural actions . the court shall issue a ruling on the procedure for settlement of a dispute . repeated settlement of the dispute with the participation of the judge shall not be allowed . the parties shall have the right to participate in such meetings by videoconference . the information received by either party as well as by the judge during the settlement of the dispute shall be confidential . the judge shall issue a ruling on the termination of settlement of a dispute, which shall not be subject to appeal . if necessary, an interpreter may be involved in the hearing . settlement of a dispute with the participation of judge shall be carried out within a reasonable period, but not longer than thirty days from the date of the ruling thereof . the plaintiff may withdraw a claim, and the defendant may recognise a claims at any stage of the proceedings . if the defendant recognises the claim upon the due legal grounds, the court shall adopt a ruling to satisfy the claim and shall continue the trial . a settlement agreement shall be concluded by the parties for the purpose of settlement a dispute on the basis of mutual concessions . parties may go beyond the subject matter of the dispute, provided that the settlement agreement does not violate the rights or legally protected interests of third parties . the task of consideration of the case on the merits is to consider and resolve the dispute . the court shall begin consideration of the case on the merits no later than sixty days from the date of opening the proceedings . proceedings in the case shall be suspended only on the grounds established by clauses 1–3 of part one of Article 251 of this Code . the case parties shall have the right to participate in the court hearing by videoconference outside the courtroom . the parties may participate in the hearing by videoconference outside the courtroom . the court may decide on the participation of a case party in a courtroom designated by the court . trial participants should be able to hear and see the progress of the trial . the court may, on its own initiative, adopt a ruling to participate in a court hearing by videoconference in the courtroom of a pre-trial detention facility or penitentiary institution . the court shall directly examine the evidence in the case during the proceedings . in one-person judicial proceedings, the judge hearing the case shall preside over the court hearing . persons present in the courtroom shall address the court standing up . derogation from the requirements established by Part 1 of this Article shall be allowed with the presiding judge's permission . the issue of bringing a party to the case to justice for contempt of court shall be decided by the court immediately after committing the offence . presiding judge shall explain to interpreter his/her rights and obligations . he/she shall warn the interpreter against a receipt of the criminal responsibility . witnesses shall be excluded from the courtroom without being able to get acquainted with the course of the court hearing . non-appearance at a court hearing of any case party, provided that he/she has been duly notified of the date, time and place of that hearing, shall not preclude consideration of the case on the merits, except as provided in this Article . the court shall postpone the consideration of a case in court hearing within the period established by this Code . if the court deems it necessary for the case party to give a personal explanation . court shall resolve the case based on the available data or evidence (adopts a judgment in absentia) in case of repeated non-appearance of the defendant, the court shall leave the statement of claim without consideration . the consequences specified in parts 3–5 of this Article shall also commence if the case party leaves the courtroom . presiding judge shall administer an oath to expert: "i, (surname, name, patronymic), swear to perform the duties of an expert in good faith, using all my professional abilities" expert examination is appointed during the court consideration, the rights, duties of the experts and their responsibilities shall be explained . the court shall hear the opening address of the plaintiff and the third party by the plaintiff's side . court may order the parties and other case parties to provide a separate explanation for each of the claims . presiding judge may, on his/her own initiative or at the oral petition of a case party, withdraw issues that do not relate to the subject matter of the dispute . court must examine the case evidence: read the written and electronic evidence, expert opinions, explanations of the parties, testimony of witnesses, as well as to examine the evidence . evidence that was not the subject of the examination at the court hearing may not be used by the court as the basis for the judgment . the reproduction of audio and video recordings shall be carried out in a court hearing or in another room specially equipped for this purpose . each witness shall be interrogated individually, before the presiding judge determines whether the witness refuses to testify . witnesses who have not reached the age of sixteen shall be instructed to give truthful testimony . witnesses who are under 16 years of age shall not be subject to the oath . a witness may use written records only if his/her testimony is related to calculations and other data that are difficult to remember . a witness who has not reached the age of sixteen shall be excluded from the courtroom after the end of his/her interrogation . witnesses may be questioned as witnesses according to Articles 230–232 of this Code . the case parties may ask questions to witnesses, as well as experts, specialists or interpreters . the content of personal papers, letters, recordings of telephone conversations, telegrams may be examined . material and electronic evidence shall be examined by the court or examined by it in another way . the rules of this Code shall apply to the reproduction and examination of personal correspondence and telegraphic messages . court has the right to clarify the essence of the expert's answer to the case parties' questions . a court may announce a break for the period established by this Code for consideration of the case . witnesses shall not be interrogated and shall be summoned again in exceptional cases . in a divorce case, the court may suspend the proceedings and set a time limit for the spouses to reconcile, which may not exceed six months . in judicial debates, the case parties shall deliver speeches (closing address) in these speeches, they may reference only to the circumstances and evidence examined at the hearing . the presiding judge may suspend a speaker only when he/she goes beyond the scope of the case before the court, or substantially exceeds the time limits set by the court for delivering speeches in judicial debate . the right of a closing remark always belongs to the defendant and his/her representative . judge shall not have the right to disclose the progress of the discussion and adoption of a judgment in the deliberation room . if a party cannot provide evidence confirming the amount of court costs incurred before the end of the judicial debate in the case, the court may resolve an issue on court costs after the judgment on the merits of the claims has been adopted . at a court hearing, the secretary of the court hearing shall keep the minutes of the hearing . the case parties shall have the right to get acquainted with the technical record and minutes . a presiding judge shall consider the comments and issue the relevant ruling . the court shall be obliged to suspend the proceedings in the case of death of a party to the case, or recognition him/her deceased, in the armed forces of Ukraine or other military formations formed under the law, transferred to martial law status or involved in an anti-terrorist operation . the right of the court to suspend the proceedings . it shall not be allowed to suspend proceedings in the case on the recovery of alimony . the court shall deliver a ruling on the issues specified in this Article . the court shall not suspend the proceedings in the cases established by clauses 1–3 of part 1 of this Article, if the absent party conducts the case through his/her representative . a court shall issue a ruling on the issues specified in this Article . proceedings in the case shall be resumed at the request of the case parties . proceedings shall continue from the stage at which they were suspended . the court ruling to close the case proceedings may be appealed . if the proceedings are closed on the grounds specified in clause 1 of part 1 of Article 255 of this Code, the court must explain to the plaintiff about the court, whose jurisdiction is subject to consideration of the case . the existence of a ruling to close the proceedings in connection with the acceptance of the plaintiff's waiver of the claim shall not deprive the defendant in this case of the refer to a court . a person whose claim has been left without consideration has the right to apply to the court again . if a court finds that an agreement on the transfer of a dispute to arbitration court contradicts the law or international treaty of Ukraine, the court may leave the claim without consideration . in the event that the parties do not agree with the requirements set forth in Articles 175 and 177 of this Code, they may leave proceedings . Article 259. Procedure for adoption of judgments 1. Courts shall adopt judgments and rulings on behalf of Ukraine immediately after the case consideration ends . if several interrelated independent claims are combined in one proceeding, the court may adopt a partial judgment on any claim . the drafting of the full text of the ruling, depending on the case complexity, may be postponed for a period not exceeding ten days . the judgment, containing the introductory and operative parts, must be signed by the entire court and attached to the case . judgments shall be set out in writing in paper and electronic forms . a ruling shall enter into force immediately after its proclamation, unless otherwise provided for by this Code . a court may issue a separate ruling in case of abuse of procedural rights . the court shall indicate the law or other regulatory act, whose requirements are violated . a separate ruling may be issued by a court of first instance, appellate or cassation courts . a ruling of the Supreme Court shall not be subject to appeal . Article 263. Legality and validity of the judgment 1. A judgment must be based on the rule of law, be lawful and reasonable. the judgment shall consist of introductory, descriptive, reasoning and operative parts . while adopting a judgment, the court may not go beyond the claims . the judgment may invalidate the unlawful deed in whole or in part . the operative part of the judgment shall contain the conclusion of the court . it may also contain the procedure and period for the judgment enforcement . the court may also grant a postponement of enforcement or enforcement in installments of a judgment . in a dispute arising from the conclusion or amendment of a contract, the operative part shall indicate the decision on each disputable condition of the contract . in case of partial satisfaction of the initial claim and counter-claims for recovery of sums of money, the court shall counter-accrue such sums and collect the difference between them . the judgment shall be pronounced in a court hearing, which concludes the consideration of the case . judge may pronounce only the introductory and operative parts of the judgment . the judgment (full or abbreviated) shall be signed by the entire court composition . the court may correct clerical errors or arithmetic errors in a judgment or ruling . the application for entering corrections shall be considered within ten days after its receipt . an additional judgment may be adopted in the same composition as the judgment . the court shall explain the judgment that has entered into force, without changing the content of the judgment . the filing of an application for clarification of a judgment shall be allowed if the judgment has not yet been enforced . full duplicate judgments shall be served to the case parties immediately after the judgment was pronounced . a copy of the judgment shall be sent within two days from the date of its adoption . if the judgment was adopted outside the court hearing or without notice (summons) of the parties, a duplicate judgment shall also be sent to these authorities, local governments, their officials or officers . duplicate judgment on declaring the assets unfounded and recovering them to the state revenue, which has entered into force, shall also be sent by the court to the relevant state authority, local government, head of enterprise, institution or organisation . judgments shall be served by sending (issuing) a copy (text) of the full or abbreviated judgment, containing information about the web address of such a judgment . in simplified action proceedings the following cases shall be considered: 1) insignificant cases; 2) cases arising from labour relations; 3) cases on granting a permission by court for temporary departure of a child from Ukraine . in resolving the issue on consideration of the case in the simplified or general action proceedings, the court shall take into account: 1) the cost of claim; 2) the significance of case for the parties 3) the remedy chosen by the plaintiff . the court shall consider cases by way of simplified action proceedings within a reasonable period, but not more than sixty days from the date of the opening of the proceedings . if the defendant within the period prescribed by the court submits an application with objections to the case consideration in simplified action procedure, the court issues a ruling on dismissal . if the defendant does not file such objections within the period set by the court, he/she shall have the right to initiate the transition to consideration of the case under the rules of general action proceedings . the defence shall be filed within fifteen days from the date of service of the ruling to open the case proceedings. a preparatory hearing for case consideration in simplified action proceedings shall not be held. first court hearing in the case shall be held no later than thirty days from day of the case proceedings opening . court may postpone the case in order to provide additional time to file a response to the defence and (or) objection . the court may adopt a judgment in absentia if the following conditions exist . consideration of the case in absentia shall be possible in case of non-appearance of all defendants in court . the court shall issue a ruling on the consideration and adoption of the judgment . an application for the review of a judgment in absenceia may be filed within thirty days . application for review of the judgment in absentia shall be signed by the person submitting it . the court shall immediately send a duplicate of it and duplicates of the materials attached to it to the other case parties . non-appearance of the persons, who were duly notified of the date, time and place of the hearing shall not preclude consideration of the application . the presiding judge shall open the court hearing and determine who of the case parties appeared . the court may by its ruling dismiss the application; 2) revoke the judgment in absentia . in case of dismissal of the application for the review of the judgment, the judgment may be appealed . a claim for recognition of assets as unfounded and their recovery into state revenue shall be filed and representation of the state in court shall be carried out by the prosecutor of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office . assets acquired after the date of entry into force of the Law of Ukraine "on amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning confiscation of illegal assets" a claim for recognition of assets as unfounded and their recovery into state revenue may be filed . assets taken into account in qualifying the act in ongoing criminal proceedings shall not be taken into consideration in the judgment to close criminal proceedings . the plaintiff shall concurrently with the filing of the claim to notify such third parties and file to the court a statement on their involvement . the term "assets" shall mean money, other property, property rights, intangible assets . assets recognised by a court according to Article 291 of this Code as unfounded shall be levied on into state revenue . if the court has not established on the basis of the submitted evidence that the assets or funds necessary for the acquisition of the assets were acquired at the expense of legal income . the assets recognised by the court as unfounded, or other defendant's assets, which correspond to the value of unfounded assets, shall be recovered . separate proceedings shall mean a type of non-litigious civil proceedings . the court shall consider in a separate proceeding a case on restriction of civil dispositive legal capacity of an individual . cases on granting the right of marriage, on dissolution of marriage shall be considered in separate proceedings . consideration of cases shall be conducted by a court consisting of one judge and two jurors . cases of separate proceedings may not be referred to arbitration or closed due to a settlement agreement . application for restriction of civil dispositive legal capacity of an individual, including a minor, shall be submitted to the court at the place of residence of this person . an application for recognition of incapacity of a citizen of Ukraine residing outside shall be determined at the request of the applicant . the court shall appoint a forensic psychiatric examination to establish an individual's mental condition . in exceptional cases, the court may order the forcible referral of an individual to a psychiatrist . the issue of summoning an individual in respect of whom the case of incapacitation is being considered shall be decided in each case by a court . the court shall establish trusteeship or guardianship over an individual . Upon the application of the guardian authority, the court remove his/her powers . the court considers the issue on dismissal of a guard or trustee at the court hearing with the notification of the persons concerned. petition for extension of validity period of a judgment on recognition of an individual incapable must be submitted by a guardian, a representative of the guardianship authority . court shall consider the petition for an extension of the validity period according to the procedure established by Article 299 of this Code . cases on limitation of an individual's opportunity to visit gambling establishments and participate in gambling shall be considered by the court . court costs related to the proceedings shall be borne by the state . having found that the applicant acted in bad faith, the court shall recover all the costs of the applicant. the court shall adopt a judgment that satisfies or dismisses the applicant's claims . the judgment on granting the full civil dispositive legal capacity to a juvenile shall be sent to the guardianship authority . an application on recognising an individual as missing, or on declaring him/her as deceased shall be submitted to the court . court considers the case with the participation of the applicant, witnesses . the court shall decide to declare the individual missing or to declare him/her deceased . an application for the adoption of a child or a full-aged individual shall be submitted to the court at their place of residence . an application for adoption of a child may also contain a request for a change of surname, name, patronymic, date, place of birth of the child . documents specified in part 2 of this Article shall be attached to the application . the consent of the legal representative of the adopted child's citizenship must be attached . in case of adoption by stateless persons permanently residing outside Ukraine or by foreign nationals, a copy of the marriage certificate, as well as a certificate of the other spouse, certified by  documents of adoptive parents who are citizens of other states must be legalised . the application for the adoption of a full-aged individual shall contain the information specified in part 1 of this Article, as well as information on the absence of the mother, father or on the deprivation of guardianship . court shall consider the case on adoption with the obligatory participation of the applicant (applicants), the adopted person . court shall verify the legality of the grounds for adoption, including the consent of the adopted child, if such consent is required . cases establishing the fact that a person possesses a passport, military card, ticket for membership in an association of citizens, shall not be subject to judicial review in a separate proceeding . an individual's application to establish a fact of legal significance shall be submitted to the court at his/her place of residence . application for certification of the fact of the birth of an individual in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine defined by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine may be filed by the parents, relatives, their representatives or any other legitimate representatives of the child . judgment on the certification of fact birth or death shall contain, among other things, information about the date and place of birth . the appeal against the judgment shall not suspend its enforcement . a person who has lost a bearer security or a promissory note may apply to the court . the application shall be filed with the court at the location of the issuer . a court shall rule to prohibit any transactions related to the lost security . the ruling shall be sent to the issuer of the lost bearer security or promissory note . if a protest has been filed to a notary, the notary shall notify the court . from the date when the ruling has been issued, all periods concerning the circulation of the loss of the note or security shall be suspended . if the holder of a lost bearer security or promissory note files an application to the court, the court shall issue a ruling to leave the application for recognition as invalid and to restore the rights to it without consideration . the period for filing a claim by the applicant in the general order may not exceed two months . a duplicate ruling shall be sent to the persons specified in part 2 of Article 322 of this Code . the holder of the bearer security or the promissory note has the right to apply to the court for compensation for damages . an application for the transfer of immovable property in abeyance to the ownership of a territorial community under the conditions specified by the Civil Code of Ukraine shall be submitted to a court at the location of the property . the court shall refuse to accept an application if it is not registered, or if the application is filed before the end a year form the day it was registered . the court shall adopt a judgment to transfer immovable property in abeyance to the relevant territorial community . an application on recognition of the inheritance as escheat property shall be submitted to the court at the place of opening the inheritance . the court may refuse to accept an application filed before the expiration of one year since the inheritance was opened . application for compulsory psychiatric care shall be submitted to the court at the person's place of residence . application of a person who is compulsorily provided with outpatient care upon a judgment, or the application of his/her legal representative on termination of such care . the psychiatric care facility where the person stays, shall send to the court an application for compulsory hospitalisation within 24 hours . an application shall be considered by a court within the following periods from the date of its receipt by the court . the court shall adopt a judgment to satisfy the application or dismiss it . if a person alleges violence against him/her during compulsory hospitalisation, the judge shall be obliged to ensure an immediate forensic examination of the person . an application for mandatory hospitalisation in an antituberculosis facility or for extension of the term of compulsory hospitalization shall state the grounds for such hospitalisation established by law . the application shall be submitted within 24 hours from the time of detection of a violation of the antiepidemic regime . cases of compulsory hospitalisation in an antituberculosis facility shall be considered by the court . the court shall adopt a judgment on the rejection or satisfaction of the application . an application for disclosure by banks of information containing banking secrecy of legal entities and individuals shall be submitted to the court at the location of the bank servicing such a legal entity or an individual . the case on disclosure by bank of information containing banking secrecy shall be considered within five days from the date of receipt of the application . the non-appearance at the court hearing without reasonable excuses of the applicant and (or) the person subject to disclosure shall not impede consideration of the case . in cases where the case is considered in order to protect state interests and national security, only the applicant shall be notified. the court shall adopt a judgment to dismiss the application if it is established that the applicant requires disclosure of information containing banking secrecy . the duplicate judgments shall be sent by the court to the bank servicing the legal entity or an individual, to the applicant and to the person about whom the information is provided . an application for issuance of a restraining order shall be submitted to the court at the place of residence (stay) a restraining order may be issued in cases of domestic violence or gender-based violence . a court may consider an application on issuance of a order if all the conditions are met . the court may also consider the application if it considers the applicant's capacity . the court shall consider the case on the issuance of a restraining order not later than 72 hours after the receipt of the application . a restrictive order issued by a court may be extended for a period not exceeding six months after the expiration of the period established by the judgment . duplicate judgments shall be served to the case parties who were present at the court hearing . the court shall notify the authorised divisions of the national police at the place of residence (stay) of the applicant on the issuance or extension of the restraining order . the case parties, persons who did not participate in the case, have the right to appeal rulings . Appeals against court rulings not provided for in Article 353 of this Code shall not be allowed separately from a judgment . rulings of the court of first instance may be appealed separately on the following grounds: 1) refusal to issue a court order; 2) on the provision of evidence; 3) on cancellation of securing the claim; 4) on appointment of expert examination; 15) on leaving the claim (application) without a court may refuse to initiate proceedings on newly discovered or exceptional circumstances . on renewal of the missed period for presentation of the enforcement document for enforcement, on correction of an error or recognition of it as unenforceable, on postponement of enforcement and enforcement in installments, on change or determination of the method and procedure for judgment enforcement . appeal shall be filed within thirty days, and against a court ruling, within fifteen days . a case party who has not been served with a full judgment or ruling has the right to renew the missed period for appeal . an appeal shall state: 1) name of the court where it is filed; 2) full title (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic) (for individuals) appeal shall be signed by the person filing it or by such person's representative . a power-of-attorney or other document certifying the representatives' powers . the provisions of Article 185 of this Code shall apply to an appeal filed in violation of the requirements established by Article 356 . appeal shall also be left without motion if it has been filed after the expiration of the periods established by Article 354 of this Code . if the person who filed it does not raise the issue of renewal of this period or indicate other grounds for renewal . an appeal shall not be accepted for consideration and shall be returned by the court of appeal . the court of appeal shall adopt a ruling on the opening of appellate proceedings . the ruling shall specify the period for the parties to file a defence to the appeal . if applications or petitions are filed together with the appeal, the court shall set a period within which the case parties shall lodge their objections . the case parties shall have the right to submit to the court of appeal a defence to the appeal . the absence of defence to appeal shall not preclude the review of the judgment adopted . together with the ruling to open appeal proceedings, the appellate court shall send duplicates of the appeal and the materials attached to it . the case parties shall have the right to join the appeal lodged by the person by whose side they acted . persons who did not participate in the trial also have the rights to join an appeal . an application for joining an appeal may be filed before the opening of consideration of the case . clarifies the composition of a trial, determines nature of disputed legal relationship . clarifies circumstances to which case parties refer as basis of their claims and objections . summons witnesses, appointment of expert examination, request for evidence, involvement of interpreter . the court of appeal shall reconsider the case based on the evidence available in it and additionally submitted . the court shall examine the evidence concerning the facts to which the case parties refer in the appeal and (or) the defence to it . a judge-rapporteur shall report the content of the judgment (ruling) that is being appealed . appeals against judgments in cases with a claim value less than one hundred times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons shall be considered by the appellate court without notifying the case parties . if the person who filed the appeal was not present during appellate case consideration, the court shall consider the appeal under this chapter . appeal against a judgment adopted by a court of first instance shall be considered within sixty days . non-appearance of the parties or other case participants shall not impede the consideration of the case . in the appellate court the plaintiff shall have the right to waive a claim . the court shall issue a ruling to accept the plaintiff's waiver or to approve the settlement agreement . the court of appeal shall have the right: 1) to leave the judgment unchanged and dismiss the appeal; 2) to revoke the judgment in whole or in part and adopt a new judgment in the relevant part or change the judgment . the grounds for judgment revocation shall be incomplete clarification of the circumstances relevant to the case . incorrect application of substantive law shall mean: misinterpretation of the law, application of law that is not applicable, or non-application of the applicable law . a violation of the rules of procedural law may be grounds for revocation . a change in a judgment may consist in supplementing or changing its reasoning . Article 377. Grounds for revoke of the judgment in whole or in part . the death of an individual who is a party to the dispute may not be grounds for applying Part 1 of this Article . a judgment being a result of consideration of a case shall be subject to revocation . the grounds for a court ruling, which prevents further proceedings in the case, shall be incomplete clarification by the court . a court of appeal shall adopt a judgment according to the rules of Article 35 and chapter 9 of section III of this Code . procedural issues related to the motion of the case, petitions and applications of case parties, issues of adjournment, announcement of a break, suspension of proceedings, shall be resolved in the appellate court . the resolution or ruling of the appeal court shall be executed by the judge-rapporteur . the resolution of the court of appeal may be appealed under cassation procedure . resolutions adopted by the appellate court shall take legal effect from the date of their adoption . the Supreme court shall be the cassations court in consideration of civil cases . the case parties, as well as persons who did not participate in the case, shall have the right to appeal in cassation the following: judgments adopted by the court of first instance after the appellate review of the case . the grounds for appeal of the court judgments referred to in clause 1 of part 1 of this Article shall be the incorrect application of substantive law or violation of procedural law . a cassation appeal against a judgment shall be filed within thirty days from the day of its pronouncement . a person who did not participate in the case shall have the right to file such appeal . the court of appeal shall decide on the case party's rights, freedoms and (or) obligations . the specified period for cassation appeal shall be calculated from the date when the full judgment has been executed . a case party who has not been served with a full judgment on the day of its pronouncement or execution shall have the right to renew the missed period . the period may also be renewed in case of omission for other valid reasons, except for the cases specified in part 3 of Article 394 . cassation appeal shall contain the judgment of the Supreme Court, containing conclusion on the rule of law applied in such legal relations, which was not taken into account in the appealed judgment . a power-of-attorney or other document certifying the authority of the representative shall be attached to the appeal . a cassation appeal shall also be left without motion if it has been filed after the expiration of the periods established by Article 390 of this Code . the person who filed it has the right to apply to the court of appeal with a request to renew the period or indicate other grounds for renewal . a panel of judges shall decide on the opening of cassation proceedings . the court shall refuse to open cassations proceedings if the appeal is unjustified . a duplicate ruling to return the casssion appeal shall be sent to the case parties . in the event that the appellant has not filed an application for renewal of the period . a cassation court shall refuse to open appeal proceedings if the appeal is filed after the expiration of one year from the date when the full text of a judgment has been executed . in case of appeal against the ruling a panel of judges shall resolve the issue on opening . the ruling shall contain the ground (grounds) to open cassations proceedings with a period for the case parties to file a defence to the appeal . cassation court shall decide to suspend enforcement of the judgment (ruling) or to revoke it . case parties shall have the right to submit to the court a defence to the appeal . the court shall close the case if the person who filed the appeal has lodged a petition to withdraw . a cassation appeal filed by a person on the grounds on resolving issues on his/her rights, freedoms, interests and (or) obligations shall be closed . if the Supreme Court in its judgement has already set out a conclusion on the application of the rule of law in such legal relations, the appeal court shall review the judgement in accordance with such an opinion . a person who has filed a cassation appeal shall have the right to supplement or change it . the person who had filed the appeal may withdraw it before the ruling is adopted . a judge-rapporteur within ten days shall prepare a report and set out the circumstances necessary for adoption of a judgment . the cassation court shall verify the legality of judgments only within the scope of claims filed in the court of first instance . the preliminary consideration of the case shall be conducted within five days after the judge-rapporteur has drawn the report . consideration of cases in the cassation court shall commence with the opening of the first court hearing . the presiding judge shall announce which case, on whose appeal and regarding the judgment of which court is being considered . a court may refer a case to a chamber if the panel deems it necessary to derogate from the conclusion on the application of the rule of law . a court which considers a case under cassation procedure shall refer the case to the Grand Chamber if such a panel (chamber, joint chamber) deems it necessary to derogate from the conclusion on the application of the rule of law in such legal relations . the case shall be referred to the grand chamber of the supreme court if the case party lodges an appeal against the judgment . the issue of referring a case for consideration to a chamber, a joint chamber, or the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court shall be resolved by a majority of judges considering the case . the court shall adopt a ruling stating the reasons for the need to derogate from the conclusion on the application of the rule of law in such legal relations . a cassation appeal is an appeal against a ruling of a court of first instance or an appellate court . the rulings adopted by courts of the first instance and appellate courts may be appealed . in the event of an appeal, the court may revoke the previously adopted ruling and judgments . appeals against rulings that are not subject to appeal separately from the judgment or resolution of the court shall be included in the cassation appeal against the relevant ruling . the plaintiff shall have the right to waive the claim and the parties may conclude a settlement agreement . if the plaintiff's statement of waiver of the claim or settlement agreement meets the requirements of Articles 206 and 207 of this Code, the court has the right: . to revoke the judgments of the courts of first instance and appellate courts and adopt a cassation court may dismiss an appeal and leave the judgments unchanged . a substantively correct and lawful judgment cannot be revoked for formal reasons alone . the case may be subject to compulsory revocation with the referral of the case for reconsideration . a judgment adopted by a court in violation of the rules of territorial jurisdiction shall not be revoked . a case party who filed the cassation appeal did not declare non-jurisdiction of the case . the case shall be referred for the reconsideration to the court of appeal . the conclusions of the cassation court, due to which the judgments were revoked, shall be binding on the court of first instance and the appellate court during the case reconsideration . violations of substantive or procedural law shall be grounds for revocation of judgments . the judgment adopted as a result of consideration of the case, shall be revoked . the death of an individual or termination of a legal entity that is a party to the dispute cannot be grounds for applying Part 1 of this Article . a cassation court shall adopt a ruling under the rules established by Article 35 . the resolution or ruling of the court of cassation shall be executed by the judge-rapporteur and signed by all judges who considered the case, unless otherwise provided for by this Code . a ruling shall consists of: a) the date and place of its adoption; b) the names and initials of the judges; c) the summary of claims and judgments; d) the generalised opinion of other case parties; e) the conclusions based on the rules of law followed by the court;  resolution of a chamber, a joint chamber, the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court shall contain a conclusion on how exactly the rule of law shall be applied . the instructions contained in the resolution of the cassation court shall be binding upon the court of first instance and the appellate court . judgments adopted by the cassation court shall be served (issued or sent) under the procedure established by Article 272 of this Code . a case shall be returned to the court of first instance, which considered it . Article 423. review of judgments due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances . an application for the review of a judgment due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances may be filed by the case parties within thirty days from the date when the verdict (ruling) in criminal proceedings entered into force . the court may not go beyond the claims that were the subject of consideration when adopting the judgment under review . application for review of a judgment adopted by the court of first instance shall be submitted to the court that adopted the judgment . an application for the review of the judgment on the grounds specified in part 2, clauses 1, 3 of part 3 of Article 423 of this Code shall be considered by the Grand Chamber . the application shall indicate the name of the court where the application is addressed . application for review of a judgment due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances shall be submitted to a judge or a panel of judges as determined under the procedure established by Article 33 of this Code . the judge (judge-rapporteur) shall verify its compliance with the requirements of Article 426 of this code and decide on the opening of proceedings . a person who has filed an application for review of a judgment due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances may waive of such an application before commencement of case consideration in court . if the waiver of the application is accepted, other case parties may request the compensation by the person who filed it . if the application for review of the judgment is satisfied on the grounds specified in part 2, clauses 1, 3 of part 3 of Article 423 of this Code, the court shall adopt a judgment . a judgement adopted by virtue of the reviewed judgment due to newly discovered or exceptional circumstances shall be issued or sent to the case parties . the judgments shall be enforced on the basis of a writ of enforcement issued by the court that considered the case as a court of first instance . a duplicate of the judgment that has come into legal force shall be sent to the entity of state registration of legal entities, individual entrepreneurs and public associations . the court may allow its immediate enforcement in the case of recovery of the full amount of the debt . if the judgment has been adopted in favour of several plaintiffs or against several defendants, several writs of enforcement shall be issued . the court that issued the enforcement document may, at the request of the recoverer or the debtor, correct the error made in its execution or issuance . it may also recognise an enforcement document as unenforceable if it was issued erroneously . application for renewal of the missed period for presentation of the enforcement document for enforcement shall be submitted to the court that considered the case as a court of first instance . application for refusal of the recoverer from enforcement in the process of the judgment enforcement must be submitted in writing to the state or private executor . the court shall consider the application within ten days from the date of its receipt in court . a court may postpone the enforcement of a judgment or extend the period of its enforcement . postponement of enforcement and enforcement in installments may not exceed one year from the date of adoption of judgment, ruling, resolution . the court may take measures to secure the claim . the court of cassation may suspend the enforcement of the appealed judgment . temporary placement of a child in a children's or medical care facility shall be decided by a court . the court shall consider the executor's recommendation within ten days . a court of first instance may apply the foreclosure on the money belonging to the person owing to a debtor . at the recoverer's request the court may seize money in accounts (deposits) or in custody in banks or other financial institutions . the court shall consider the recommendation specified in part 1 of this Article immediately, but not later than the next day from the day of its receipt . seizure within scope of total amount of recovery in the manner prescribed by this Code . court shall decide on counter-security and prohibition for such a person to repay the debt . judgment may be enforced by foreclosure on the money belonging to the debtor . the court may adopt a ruling on temporary restraint of an individual's right to leave Ukraine . the ruling may be adopted by a court at the place of enforcement of the relevant judgment . in case of withdrawal of one of the parties to the enforcement proceedings, the court shall replace such party with his/her successor . the ruling to replace a party to the enforcement proceedings shall be sent (provided) to the case parties, as well as to the state executor, private executor . the issue on determining the share of the debtor's property in the property he/she owns together with other persons, shall be resolved by the court . within ten days the court shall consider this issue at the court hearing . the debtor shall be returned all that has been recovered from him/her in favour of the recoverer under the specified judgment . the issue on reversal of enforcement of a judgment shall be resolved by the court in the presence of the relevant application of the party . in the event of revocation of judgments due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances . in cases on recovery of alimony, wages or other benefits arising from employment, reversal of enforcement shall not be allowed . procedure relating to the enforcement of judgments in civil cases shall be resolved by the court which considered the case as a court of first instance . parties to enforcement proceedings have the right to appeal to the court if they believe that the judgment, action or omission of a state executor violates their rights or freedoms . non-appearance of the recoverer, debtor, state executor or any other official of the body of the state executive service, private executor, shall not preclude its consideration . if the court finds that the person whose decision, action or omission is being appealed has been dismissed (does not carry out the relevant activity), it shall involve into the case an official whose competence includes resolving the issue of eliminating the violation of the applicant's rights or freedoms . parties, third parties, as well as persons who did not participate in the case, shall have the right to apply to the court to revoke the arbitral award . an application for revocation of an arbitration award may not be filed after expiration of three months . the court shall adopt a ruling to refuse to open proceedings on grounds not provided for by law or an international treaty . the application for revocation of the arbitral award, international commercial arbitration award, shall be submitted in writing and signed by the person who appeals it . the application shall state: 1) name of the court where the application is filed; 2) full title (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic for individuals) a duplicate of the award adopted by the permanent arbitration court, international commercial arbitration court located in Ukraine may also be certified by the presiding judge . the provisions of Article 185 of this Code shall apply to an application for revocation of the arbitral award . in case of non-submission of the specified documents the application shall be returned . the court shall open the proceedings and propose the case parties to submit their objections (explanations) regarding the filed application . the court may request from the arbitration court or international commercial arbitration court for the necessary case-file concerning the grounds for revocation of the arbitral award . the arbitral award may be revoked only in the cases provided for in this Article . the court may suspend the proceedings in the case for a period established by it . any party may apply to the same court with an application for obtaining a writ of enforcement (permission) to enforce the award . arbitral award may be revoked if the case subject to the award is not within the jurisdiction of the arbitration court according to the law . revocation by a court of an arbitral awards shall not deprive a party of the right to re-apply to the arbitral court, unless otherwise provided for by the law of Ukraine . the revocation by a court of the international commercial arbitral award shall not deprive a party of the right to re-apply to international commercial arbitration court . the court ruling to revoke the arbitration award may be appealed under the appellate procedure provided for the appeal of judgments . in case of filing an appeal, the ruling takes legal effect after consideration by the court of appeal . a foreign court judgment may be presented to compulsory enforcement in Ukraine within three years from the date of its entry into force . if the debtor has no place of residence (stay) or location in Ukraine, the issue on granting permission on compulsory enforcement shall be considered by the court at the location of his/her property in Ukraine . petition on granting permission on compulsory enforcement of a foreign court judgment shall be submitted to the court directly by the recoverer (his/her representative) or under the international treaty, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . the petition shall be accompanied by documents provided for by international treaties . if a failure to secure the claim may complicate or prevent the judgment enforcement, the court shall take measures to secure it . petition on granting permission on compulsory enforcement of a foreign court judgment must be accompanied by all the required documents . in case of filing a petition in electronic form, the documents referred to in clauses 1–4 of part 3 of this Article may be submitted in duplicates . the court shall notify the debtor in written form within five days of the receipt of the petition . petition on granting permission on compulsory enforcement of a foreign court judgment shall be considered by a single judge at the open court hearing . petition shall not be satisfied in cases provided for by international treaties, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . a foreign court judgment that is not subject to compulsory enforcement shall be recognised in Ukraine if its recognition is provided for by international treaties, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, or on the principle of reciprocity . Article 469. Challenging court’s ruling 1. A ruling on granting permission on compulsory enforcement or on dismissal of the petition on this issue may be appealed . petition on recognition of a foreign court judgment that is not subject to compulsory enforcement . petition must be filed by the interested person to the court under Articles 464–466 of this Code . judge shall adopt ruling specifying the date, time and place for the consideration of the petition . the recognition of a foreign court judgment in Ukraine may be dismissed on the grounds determined under Article 468 of this Code . a duplicate of the ruling shall be sent by the court to the interested persons within three days from the date when the ruling has been adopted . the application on recognition and granting permission on enforcement of an international commercial arbitral award shall be submitted to the court of appeal, whose jurisdiction extends to the city of Kyiv . the application submitted after the expiration of the period determined by part 3 of this Article shall be returned without consideration . the provisions of Article 185 of this Code shall apply to the application on recognition and granting permission on enforcement of an international commercial arbitral award . non-submission of the specified documents shall be returned without consideration, subject to adoption of the relevant ruling by the court . the court shall notify the debtor in written form within five days of the receipt of the application on recognition and granting permission on enforcement of an international commercial arbitral award . if there are reasonable grounds, the court may adjourn the consideration of an application, with the parties to be notified of it . the issue on taking measures to secure a claim shall be considered under Chapter 10 of Section I of this Code . court ruling on recognition and granting permission on enforcement of an international commercial arbitral award . if the award provides for the payment of interest and (or) late charge accrued under the conditions specified in the award, the court shall state on accrual in its ruling till the award is enforced, and subject to the current law governing such accrual . the final amount of interest (late charge) in this case shall be calculated according to the rules specified in the judgment . if in the international commercial arbitral award the amount of recovery is specified in foreign currency or currencies . the court ruling on recognition and granting permission on enforcement or on dismissal may be appealed by the parties . the court ruling on recognition and granting permission on voluntary enforcement or on dismissal to recognise and enforce the international commercial arbitral award may be appealed by the parties . international commercial arbitration awards not subject to compulsory enforcement shall be recognised under the procedure provided for in this chapter . if the place of arbitration is in Ukraine, the court shall grant permission on enforcement in the manner prescribed by this Chapter . the court may suspend the proceedings in the case regarding the application on recognition and granting permission on compulsory enforcement of an international commercial arbitral award . any party to the arbitration proceedings in a due manner and period shall have the right to apply to the court to revoke this award and request to consider it together with the application . the general provisions provided for in Articles 454 and 455 of this Code shall apply . an application on the issuance of a writ of enforcement for the arbitral award compulsory enforcement shall be submitted in written form . the application shall state: 1) name of the court where the application is filed; 2) name and composition of the arbitration court . a copy of the award of the permanent arbitration court shall be certified by a notary; 3) a document confirming the payment of court fees. application on the issuance of a writ of enforcement for the arbitral award compulsory enforcement shall be considered by the judge sitting alone within fifteen days from the date of its receipt at the court hearing with notification of the parties . non-submission of the specified documents shall be returned without consideration, subject to adoption of the relevant ruling by the court. the court shall establish the presence or absence of grounds for a refusal to issue a writ of enforcement for the arbitral award compulsory enforcement . if there is a statement of appeal and revocation of the award, the proceedings of the application on the issuance of a enforcement shall be suspended . any party to the arbitration proceedings in a due manner and period shall have the right to apply to the court to revoke this award . the arbitral award has been adopted in a dispute not provided for in the arbitration agreement . only the part of the award relating to these issues may be revoked . the composition of the arbitration court that made the award did not meet the legal requirements . writ of enforcement shall be entered into the unified state register of enforcement documents not later than the next day from the day of its issuance . lost civil judicial proceedings may be restored at the request of a case party or on the initiative of the court . application for restoration of the lost judicial proceedings shall be accompanied by documents or copies thereof kept by the applicant . court may renew the period for presentation of the writ of enforcement for enforcement if, at the request of the applicant, it finds the grounds for its omission reasonable . in case of non-compliance with the requirements determined by Article 491 of this code, the rules of Article 185 of this Code shall apply . if the purpose of the appeal to the court is not related to the protection of his/her rights and interests, the court shall return the application or leave it without consideration by virtue of the ruling, if proceedings were opened . court shall refuse to open proceedings on the application for restoration of lost judicial proceedings in the following cases . the court may interrogate witnesses of the persons who were present during the proceedings, participants in the case (their representatives), and perform other procedural actions . the court shall adopt a ruling on the restoration of the lost judicial proceedings fully or in a certain part deemed by it as necessary for restoration. foreigners, stateless persons, foreign legal entities, foreign states and international organisations have the right to apply to courts of Ukraine to protect their rights, freedoms or interests . the jurisdiction of the courts in civil cases involving a foreign element shall be determined by this Code, law or international treaty, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . a court order for the provision of legal aid shall be executed in Ukrainian . a certified translation into the official language of an appropriate state shall be attached . the court order shall not be admitted for the enforcement if it may lead to violation of the sovereignty of Ukraine . foreign court order as to serving of a court summons or other documents shall be enforced within the court hearing or by the authorised court officer at the place of residence (stay, place of work) of an individual or his/her representative, or to the representative of the legal entity, against a receipt . summons shall additionally contain the information as to the consequences of refusal from receipt of documents and non-appearance in the court in order to receive documents . if a person who is to be serviced the court summons or other documents is in custody or is serving a sentence of life imprisonment, imprisonment for a definite term, detention in a penal military unit, restriction of freedom, such documents shall be deemed as served . a foreign court order for the serving of a summons shall be enforced on the day when the person or his/her representative received such documents or refused to receive them . in case of refusal to receive documents, the judge, an  a court order for serving documents to a citizen of Ukraine, who lives in a foreign state, may be enforced by officers of diplomatic mission or consular post of Ukraine in the relevant state . a protocol shall be executed and signed by the person against whom procedural actions were taken . the procedural law of Ukraine shall apply. coercive measures shall not apply to the court order enforcement. court may renew procedural periods established by norms of this Code during quarantine . court may extend procedural period if impossibility to perform action was associated with quarantine restrictions . amendments to this Code shall be put into effect taking into account following special provisions . cassation appeals against judgments in civil cases filed and pending before this version of the Code entered into force shall be transferred to the Civil Court of Cassation . appeals referred to in subclauses 1, 3–5 of this clause shall be filed within thirty days from the date of entry into force of this Code . if a court considering a case under cassations procedure as a member of a panel or chamber (joint chamber) deems it necessary to derogate from if the Grand Chamber of the Supreme court concludes that there are no grounds for referring the case, the case shall be returned (transferred) to the relevant panel of judges or the chamber (joint chamber) for consideration, subject to adoption of a ruling . applications and appeals submitted before this version of the Code enters into force, proceedings on which are not open at the time of its entry into force may not be dismissed . judgments adopted by courts of first instance before this version of the Code enters into force shall become effective and may be appealed under cassation procedure . submission, registration, sending of procedural and other documents, evidence, formation, storage and sending of case-file shall be carried out in paper form . appeals and cassation appeals shall be filed by the case parties or through the relevant courts . participation in a court hearing by videoconference within the court premises . publication of information on the case specified in this version of the Code shall be carried out . appeals or cassation appeals against the rulings adopted by the courts of the first instance shall not prevent further consideration of the case by this court . in the case of filing an appeal against a ruling that is not subject to appeal separately from a judgment, the court shall return it to the applicant . the unified judicial information and telecommunication system shall start functioning 90 days after the announcement on the establishment and operation of the system is published . the pending cases under consideration on the basis of materials in paper form, will be further considered . before the day the ununified state register of enforcement documents starts functioning: . execution and issuance of the judgments amending the enforcement documents shall be carried out by the court considering the case as a court of first instance . a court fee in the amount of 0.03 times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons shall be charged for the issuance of a duplicate enforcement document to the recoverer . the provisions of this Code shall be applied taking into account sub-clause 11 of clause 16-1 of section XV “Transitional Provisions” of the Constitution of Ukraine . if the court whose jurisdiction under the requirements of procedural law includes resolving the issue on restoration of lost proceedings is located in the temporarily occupied territory