this Law governs relations related to freedom of movement and free choice of place of residence in Ukraine . it shall apply to citizens of Ukraine, as well as foreigners and stateless persons . registration of the person's permanent/temporary residence or its absence may not be a condition for the exercise or the grounds for restriction of rights and freedoms provided by law . registration authority means the executive authority of a village, township or city council . residence certificate means a document issued by the registration authority to a person . documents containing information on place of residence mean passport of citizen of Ukraine . registration means entering information in the register of the territorial community . legal grounds for residing in Ukraine shall include: for citizens of Ukraine – the citizenship of Ukraine; for foreigners and stateless persons – grounds established by the law . parents or other legal representatives shall register the place of residence of a newborn child within three months from the date of state registration of the child's birth . registration may be carried out upon a request from their legal representative . documents stipulated in this article for the registration of the child's place of residence may be submitted to the civil registration authorities . registration of a newborn child may also be carried out based on the data sent by social protection authorities as indicated in the birth allowance application . residence shall be registered only at one address . if a decision is made to change the numbering of buildings, rename streets, townships, administrative and territorial units, changes shall be entered in the register of the territorial community . the registration authority shall notify the person within thirty days from the date when such information was identified . temporary residence of foreigners, stateless persons shall be registered and extended in accordance with the legislation . homeless persons and other persons with no permanent place of residence shall be registered at the address of a specialised social institution, social service and social protection institution . submission of an application for registration, de-registration of residence of such persons shall be entrusted, in the manner and within the time limits established by this Law . de-registration of a person's place of residence at the request of their legal representative shall be carried out with the consent of other legal representatives . registration authority shall refuse registration or de-registeration of residence if: the person has not submitted the documents or information provided by this Law . the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state policy in the field of registration of individuals shall monitor the compliance of registration authorities with the legislation on the registration of residence . registration of citizens of Ukraine residing outside Ukraine shall be carried out by foreign diplomatic missions of Ukraine in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers . every person has the right of access to their personal data entered in the registers . officers and officials of register holders shall be prohibited from disclosing personal data . the transfer of personal data to public authorities, local governments without the written consent of the person may be carried out only in cases provided by law . freedom of movement shall be restricted in administrative and territorial units located: on the border area; on the territories of military facilities; in the zones belonging to the category of restricted access zones according to the law . in case of danger of distribution of infectious diseases and poisonings of people special conditions and a mode of residence of the population and economic activity have been introduced . the place of residence of a person that was confirmed by a residence permit or was duly registered as of the day of enactment of this Law shall be considered registered . foreigners and stateless persons who do not have legal grounds to reside on the territory of Ukraine . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall prepare and submit for consideration to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals on bringing the laws of Ukraine in line with this Law .