criminal executive legislation of Ukraine shall regulate procedure and conditions for executing and serving criminal sentences . objectives of legislation shall be to determine principles for execution of criminal sentences, legal status of convicts, safeguards for their rights, legitimate interests and duties . legislation shall also regulate release from serving a sentence, assistance to persons released from sentence, control and supervision . the criminal executive legislation, the execution and serving of sentences are based on the principles of legality, justice, humanism, democracy, equality of convicts before the law, respect for human rights and freedoms . a prerequisite for re-socialisation shall be the conviction of a criminal offence . the unified register of persons convicted for crimes against sexual freedom and sexual integrity of juveniles is established . the register shall include information on the surname, name, patronymic of a convict, date of birth, place of residence or stay, a criminal offence for which they were convicted, type of criminal sentence imposed on them, and on violation of administrative supervision rules . information on a person shall be entered into register on the grounds of court judgement of conviction that has become legally effective . the state shall respect and protect the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of convicts . the legal status of convicted foreigners and stateless persons shall be determined by the laws of Ukraine and this Code . a prisoner shall not be subjected to medical or similar tests regardless of their consent . a convict shall receive a confirmation ticket upon receipt of the appeal (correspondence) within three days (or, in cases prescribed by law, within one day) from the issuance of the confirmation ticket, the appeal shall be forwarded to the addressee . the right to health care shall be ensured by a system of medical, health improvement and preventive measures . convicts shall enjoy the freedom to practise any religion or to express beliefs . they shall also enjoy the right to receive copies of documents in their personal records . a prisoner's right to a visit shall be safeguarded under the procedure established by this Code . convicts have the right to personal security in the event of a threat to their life and health . conditions for detention of convicts in respect of whom security measures have been applied shall be changed in compliance with the requirements provided for in this Code and the legislation of Ukraine . penitentiary authorities shall include the central executive authority implementing the state penal and probation policy . correctional institutions shall be grouped into minimum, medium and maximum-security facilities . the authorised body for probation shall ensure: supervision over convicts released from serving a sentence with probation . military units, military detention facilities execute sentences of deprivation of military, special rank, grade or qualification class, service restriction for service persons convicted of criminal offences . sentences of imprisonment for a determined period, for life, shall be executed in correctional facilities . sentenced convicts shall serve their sentences in: a military prison, a correctional centre, an administrative prison or a detention centre . first-time convicts sentenced to imprisonment for crimes committed by negligence and non-grave crimes may also serve their sentences in this type of correctional facility . medium-security correctional facilities – convicted women sentenced . to life imprisonment; women whose sentence of death penalty or life imprisonment has been commuted to . imprisonment for a determined period by pardon or amnesty; men convicted of premeditated particularly grave crimes . juvenile correctional facilities shall execute sentences of imprisonment for a determined period in relation to convicted minors . convicts with a disease that poses a threat to the health of others shall be treated by the penitentiary authorities . visits to penitentiary institutions shall be subject to departmental control by the higher administrative authorities and officials of the central executive authority implementing the state penal policy . the president of Ukraine or their specially authorised representatives (up to five persons in each oblast, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol) members of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment . members of the immediate family of convicts may visit penitentiary institutions under special permission granted by the administration of these institutions . representatives of the mass media shall have the right, without time restrictions, with maximum assistance from the staff . during visits, the persons referred to in part 1 of this Article shall be able to make audio and video recordings and distribute the information received . citizens’ associations and mass media, religious and charitable organisations, individuals under the procedure established by this Code and the laws of Ukraine, may assist penitentiary authorities and institutions in convict reformation and re-socialisation . monitoring committees acting on the basis of this Code shall exercise public control over the execution of criminal sentences . in the case of juvenile correctional facilities – by the board of trustees. chapter 6 EXECUTION OF SENTENCES OF DEPRIVATION OF MILITARY, SPECIAL RANK, GRADE OR QUALIFICATION CLASS Article 29. Procedure for executing the sentences of deprivation of military, special rank, grade or qualification class a copy of the sentence, which deprives a convict of the military, special rank, grade or qualification class, shall be sent to the authority or official, which have awarded this rank . the execution of a sentence of deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities sustained as a primary punishment is entrusted to the authorised probation authorities . a person sentenced to an additional punishment of deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities is serving his sentence . the administration of the detention facility, correctional institution, the command of the disciplinary battalion, military unit or the head of the military post may not employ the convict in work that is prohibited to them by the sentence. a copy of the court sentence shall be sent to the criminal executive inspectorate at the place of residence of the or to the military unit at the convi duties of the owner of an enterprise, institution, organisation or its authorised body at it at the convict’s place of employment . authorities entitled to revoke a permit to engage in certain activities shall be obliged, not later than three days after receiving a copy of the court judgment, to withdraw the relevant document . evasion from serving a sentence of deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities shall constitute the convict’s failure to fulfil the duties provided for in Article 34 of this Code . sentence of community services shall consist in performance by a convic . of socially useful works specified by the local governments free of charge in free from basic work or study time . convicts sentenced to community services shall be obliged to comply with the statutory procedure and conditions for serving a sentence . valid reasons for convicting’s failure to appear when summoned by the authorised probation authority include the untimely receipt of the summons . the owner of an enterprise, institution, organisation or its authorised body shall be responsible for the performance of the work . evasion from serving a sentence of community service shall mean systematic failure to fulfil the established duties, failure to appear for community service more than twice in a month without valid reasons . authorised probation authority may apply a warning in the form of a written notice of prosecution to convicts . sentences of correctional labour shall be served at an enterprise, institution, organisation irrespective of the form of ownership at the convict’s place of employment . a court judgment shall be executed no later than ten days from the date it becomes legally effective or enforceable . valid reasons for convict’s failure to appear when summoned by the authorised probation authority at the appointed time shall include the untimely receipt of the summons, illness and other circumstances that effectively prevent them from arriving on time . the period of a sentence of correctional labour shall be calculated in years, months and days . the period of serving a sentence shall not count illness caused by alcohol, narcotic intoxication or the influence of drugs or other toxic substances . the owner of an enterprise, institution, organisation or its authorised body at the place where a convict serves their sentence of correctional labour shall deduct the part of the wage as determined by the court judgement and transfer the amount deducted to the revenue of the state . authorised probation authority shall exercise control over correctness and timeliness of deductions from the earnings of convicts sentenced to correctional labour . no deductions shall be made from monetary benefits received under the procedure for compulsory state social insurance and social security . evasion from serving a sentence of correctional labour shall mean: systematic failure to fulfil the established duties . appearing at work while intoxicated, under the influence of drugs or other toxic substances . commander of the military unit shall issue a corresponding order specifying the amount of deductions to the revenue of the state . a court that has ruled a sentence providing for the confiscation of property as an additional punishment shall send an enforcement order, a copy of the list of property to the state executive service body . property belonging to the convict under the right of private ownership or being their share in common property, shall not be subject to confiscation . convicts sentenced to arrest shall be held in isolation, with separation for men, women, minors, convicts who have previously been prosecuted . foreign citizens and stateless persons shall generally be held separately from others . a visit to relatives or other persons in the presence of a representative of the facility may be granted . convicts may be involved in works, without payment for labour, on the improvement of detention facilities . material and welfare support and medical care for convicts sentenced to arrest shall be carried out in accordance with the regulations established for persons serving a sentence of imprisonment . a convicted service person may not be presented for the assignment of the next military rank . convicted service persons may be rewarded with incentives for conscientious behaviour . the procedure and conditions for serving an arrest shall be determined by this Code . convicts sentenced to restriction of freedom shall travel at the state's expense to the place of serving their sentence by themselves . the authorised probation authority shall deliver to the convic a summons to appear to serve the order and to familiarise themselves with the procedure . in the event a prisoner fails to travel to their place of service within the prescribed period after receipt of the order, the prisoner shall be committed to that place . the period of the sentence shall be calculated from the date of the convict’s arrival and registration in the correctional centre . the time spent in pre-trial detention in custody as well as the time of committing in custody shall count towards the sentence under the regulations set out in Article 72 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine . convicts sentenced to restriction of freedom shall have the right to wear civilian clothes, have portable personal computers and their accessories . convicts may be allowed short trips outside the correctional centre in the circumstances provided for by law for persons sentenced to imprisonment . in case of the need to visit a medical institution for illness or treatment following a relevant medical opinion, for taking an examination at an educational institution, for the duration of criminal proceedings, for preliminary resolution of employment and domestic arrangement . if items, objects and substances are found in the possession of a convict, they shall be confiscated and stored . consuming alcoholic beverages and beer, drugs, psychotropic substances or their analogues or other intoxicating substances shall be prohibited . after serving six months of the sentence, the persons referred to in part 6 of this Article may reside outside the dormitory with their families . convicts sentenced to restriction of freedom shall be involved in socially useful paid work under a fixed-term labour contract, as a rule, in production facilities of correctional centres . convicts regardless of all deductions shall be paid at least seventy-five per cent of total earnings . convicts sentenced to restriction of freedom shall be subject to compulsory state social insurance . they are involved in socially useful paid work under a fixed-term labour contract . the costs of detention in penitentiary institutions shall be reimbursed from the pensions . the owner of an enterprise, institution, organisation or its authorised body whereat convicts work may not dismiss them . in correctional centres, treatment and preventative activities, as well as anti-epidemic activities, shall be organised and conducted by the health care institutions . the minimum living space allowance for a prisoner shall be four square metres . convicts not working due to illness or for reasons beyond their control shall be provided with food and utilities . convicts serving a sentence of restriction of freedom may establish amateur organisations . political parties and trade unions shall be prohibited in correctional centres . convicts may be rewarded for their conscientious behaviour and attitude to work . penalty may be imposed only on a person who has committed the misconduct not later than within ten days from the day when the misconduct has been discovered . during the period of prohibition, convicts who are prohibited from leaving the dormitory during their free time may be allowed to leave in exceptional cases and for a specified time . the right to apply incentives and penalties provided for in Articles 67 and 68 of this Code shall be exercised in full by the head of the correctional centre, as well as their direct superiors . the sentences of detention of service persons in a disciplinary battalion shall be executed by a disciplined squadron . the period of serving the sentences of detention of service persons in a disciplinary battalion shall be calculated from the date determined by the court sentence . convicted service persons shall be subject to the provisions of this Code on socially useful work, general education and vocational training . vacation shall not be granted to convicted service persons . convicted service persons shall be allowed to hold telephone conversations without limiting their number, including during their stay in inpatient health care facilities . letters received shall be handed in by a representative of the disciplinary battalion . the content of the letters shall not be subject to inspection, and illegal attachments detected herewith shall be seized . parcels (packages) and postal wrappers received in the names of convicted service persons shall be subject to inspection . if any items or objects, which the service person is not allowed to have, are found in a parcel they shall be seized . firearms, bladed weapons, ammunition, poisonous substances, drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues or precursors shall be confiscated . social and educational work with convicted service persons shall be organised and conducted by the command of the disciplinary battalion . local executive authorities and public organisations may assist the command . in order to encourage useful initiative and to use public influence on their reformation and re-socialisation . disciplinary penalties may be imposed on convicted service persons for violation of the established procedure for serving the sentence . convicted service persons shall serve their arrest in individual cells in a military detention facility of the disciplinary battalion . convicted service persons undergoing treatment shall be guaranteed legal aid and telephone calls in accordance with the provisions of the Code . convicts sentenced to imprisonment shall be committed for serving the sentences no later than ten days from the date the sentence becomes legally effective . convicts sentenced to imprisonment for non-grave or grave crimes may, with their consent, retain in a pre-trial detention facility or be committed to a maximum-security correctional facility for upkeep work . remand prisoners who have previously worked in courts, prosecution bodies, the judiciary or law enforcement agencies – in isolation from other categories . a convict may be temporarily retained in a pre-trial detention facility . he may also be transferred from a correctional centre, disciplinary battalion, correctional facility or juvenile correctional facilities . men and women, as well as minors and adults, shall be detained separately in the facilities. the administration of the facility shall notify the court that ruled the sentence of its enforcement and of the place of serving the sentence by the convic . convicts first time sentenced to imprisonment shall be detained separately from those having previously served a sentence of imprisonment . convicts who have previously worked in courts, prosecution bodies, the judiciary or law enforcement agencies and, at their own request, persons who have practised law shall be held separately. in juvenile correctional facilities, the following units shall be established: quarantine, diagnosis and allocation; re-socialisation; and social rehabilitation . no reinforced control unit shall be set up in facilities for female convicts . the operation of units in a correctional facility shall be regulated by this Code . convicts sentenced to imprisonment in the re-socialisation unit shall be allocated to the social and psychological service departments . in the reinforced control unit of minimum-security correctional facilities with general conditions and medium-security facilities – in cell-type premises . an individual programme of social and educational work shall be drawn up and approved by head of the facility . convicts first time sentenced to imprisonment for crimes committed by negligence, non-grave crimes, and those transferred from the re-socialisation unit, shall be detained in the social rehabilitation unit . the conditions of serving the sentence may be changed within one facility or by transferring to a facility of another type . transferring convicts to a correctional facility of another security level shall be carried out by the central executive authority implementing the state penal policy . convicts who have embarked on the path of reformation shall be transferred after actually serving at least one-fourth of the sentence imposed by the court . the transfer of a prisoner to social rehabilitation unit shall not apply to: 1) persons who have penalties referred to in paragraphs 4, 6–10 of Article 132 of this Code not expunged regime in the facilities means procedure established by law and other regulatory acts . it ensures isolation of convicts, constant supervision over them, exercise of their rights and legitimate interests . regime shall create conditions for socially useful work, education and vocational training, social and educational work and public influence . facility administration shall have the right to use technical means of supervision and control . detective and investigative activities in the facilities shall be carried out to ensure the safety of convict, facility staff and others . the main purpose of these activities shall be to search for and record factual data on the illegal actions of individuals and groups . the security and supervision over the convicts shall be strengthened . additional regime measures shall be implemented in cases of natural disasters, epidemics . physical force, special means, straitjackets and weapons shall be applied . straitjackets shall not be used on convicted minors and women . use of physical force, special means and weapons shall be reported to the head of the facility . the use of weapons shall also be allowed in other cases . convicts may also be granted other rights, which are not contrary to the purpose of the sentence or to the conditions for executing and serving the sentence . they are obliged to: comply with the rules governing the procedure and conditions for serving their sentence, the daily schedule of the facility, the lawful relations with other convicts, facility staff and other persons . convicts shall have the right to purchase food, clothing, footwear, underwear and basic necessities on a non-cash basis using money earned in the colonies, received under transfers, from their pensions and other income, without limitation of their amount . consuming alcoholic beverages, drugs, psychotropic substances or their analogues, resisting the lawful actions of the facility staff . a convict shall be allowed to possess no more than ten copies of books . literature in excess of the quantity indicated in part 3 may be transferred to the facility library or sent to relatives . visits to relatives, lawyers and other persons are allowed only with the right to live together . charges for the use of short-term and long-term visiting rooms shall be paid . legal aid shall be extended to convicts undergoing treatment in in-patient health care facilities . the number and duration of such visits shall be unlimited . telephone calls and the use of the internet shall be paid for out of the convicties’ own funds . convicts shall be granted the right to use the internet under the supervision of the administration . the list of websites permitted for access shall be compiled by the executive authority implementing the state penal and probation policy . short trips outside correctional facilities shall be determined by the Ministry of justice of Ukraine . convicts detained in minimum-security correctional facilities shall be allowed short trips outside the correctional within Ukraine for a period not exceeding seven days . transportation costs shall be borne by the convicct or their relatives . the maximum weight of one parcel or postal wrapper shall be determined by the applicable postal regulations . if a prisoner receives medicine or medical products, they shall be transferred to the medical unit of the facility for treatment . convicts shall have the right to receive and send letters and telegrams at their own expense without any limitation on their number . money received through remittances shall be credited to the convict’s personal account . the procedure for receiving and handing over parcels or postal wrappers shall be determined by the regulatory legal acts of the Ministry of justice of Ukraine . minimum living space allowance per convict shall be four square metres . pregnant women and nursing mothers shall be provided with better living conditions . nutritional standards for imprisoned persons shall be established by cabinet of ministers . treatment, prevention, sanitation and epidemiological work in prison facilities shall be organised and carried out under the health care legislation . forced feeding of a convict who has declared a refusal to eat shall be prohibited . a person who has refused a meal shall be under constant medical supervision from the moment this is established . the ground for the provision of such medical aid shall be a medical opinion . the procedure for stay, the conditions for detention and protection of convicts in health care institutions other than those under the jurisdiction of the central executive authority shall be determined by the Ministry of justice of Ukraine . women sentenced to imprisonment shall be guaranteed the right not to give information and not to be examined concerning their reproductive health history . convicts sentenced to imprisonment in arrears on writs of execution shall be obliged to work in places and jobs determined by the facility administration . convicts who have reached the retirement age set out in Article 26 of the Law of Ukraine “On Mandatory State Pension Insurance” shall be allowed to work at their request, subject to the opinion of the facility's medical commission . the labour of convicts sentenced to imprisonment shall be remunerated according to its quantity and quality . in correctional facilities, regardless of deductions, at least fifty per cent of monthly earnings are credited to their personal account . the procedure for reimbursing the cost of their detention is established by the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine . pensions to convicts, if they have the right thereto, shall be awarded by the territorial authorities of the Pension Fund of Ukraine at the place of serving a sentence . within no more than 30 days from the date of motion registration, the administration of the correctional facility shall ensure that the convictian meets with a representative of the pension fund . the costs of detention in penitentiary institutions shall be reimbursed from the pensions . convicts’ law-abiding behaviour shall be encouraged by means of differentiated educational impact programmes . convicts in facilities shall receive moral, legal, labour, aesthetic, physical, health and hygiene education . three grades of secondary general education schools shall be established in juvenile correctional facilities . general education and vocational training for convicts shall be organised in accordance with the laws of Ukraine "on education", "on general secondary education" and "on vocational education" During the period of the state final examination, prisoners who are studying shall be exempted from work for the period prescribed by legislation . in the facilities, the exercise of freedom to manifest any religion or to express beliefs relating to attitudes towards religion shall be subject only to such limitations as are necessary to ensure isolation, public safety . pastoral care activities shall not violate the procedure for executing and serving a sentence prescribed by law and other regulatory legal acts . clergy members (chaplains) may visit penitentiary institutions for pastoral care activities upon special permission of the administration of such institutions . information obtained from confession may not be subject of pre-trial investigation or used as evidence . convicts shall have at least two hours of free time a day . incentives shall have the purpose of exerting an educational impact on the persons to whom they are applied . only one previously imposed penalty may be discharged early from a convict . facility administration shall be obliged to conduct quarterly assessments of a person’s conduct . a disciplinary misconduct of a person serving a sentence of imprisonment shall be an unlawful, culpable act (action or omission), which infringes the established penitentiary procedure in the execution of sentences, committed by that person . a prisoner who has acted in a state of extreme necessity, under psychological or physical coercion shall not be subject to disciplinary liability . pregnant women, women who have children in orphanages at the correctional facilities and persons with a first group disability shall not be placed in a disciplinary cell, a punishment cell or cell-type premises (individual cell) a gross violation of the established procedure for serving the sentence shall mean the consumption of alcohol, drugs, psychotropic substances or their analogues or other intoxicating substances . the penalty of transfer to a cell-type premise (individual cell) shall be imposed when other coercion actions have failed . convicts subject to the disciplinary penalty of placement in a disciplinary cell or a punishment cell may be subject to all penalties . during detention in disciplinary cells, punishment cells or cell type premise, prisoners may be granted a telephone call with permission of the head of the facility . a convict may appeal against a penalty imposed on them, but filing a complaint shall not terminate the execution of the penalty . the official who imposed the penalty may revoke it or replace it with another, more lenient penalty, for good cause . a facility administration shall immediately initiate an investigation of the reasons, circumstances and motives for the violation . the appropriateness of imposing a penalty on persons serving a sentence of imprisonment shall be decided at a meeting of the disciplinary committee of the penitentiary institution . a convict and/or their representative shall have the right to seek legal aid from the legal aid entities . members of the monitoring committees in the respective territory may be invited to the meeting . the head of a penitentiary institution shall have the right to place a convict in a disciplinary cell for up to one day . the decision to bring a person serving a sentence to disciplinary liability shall be motivated in detail and may be appealed by the person serving the sentence or their representative . convicts sentenced to imprisonment shall be financially liable for pecuniary losses caused to the state while serving their sentence in accordance with legislation . in other cases, the losses shall be reimbursed in the amount and on the grounds set out in civil law . in minimum-security correctional facilities, convicts shall have the right to spend every month, without limitation, the money earned in the correctional facility, received as a gift, from pensions and other income . convicts who are in the reinforced control unit shall be granted one short visit per month and one long visit per three months . if they are conscientious about their behaviour and their attitude to work, after serving at least one-third of their sentence, they shall be entitled to improved conditions of detention  men whose death penalty or life imprisonment has been commuted to imprisonment for a determined period by pardon or amnesty; men convicted of premeditated particularly grave crimes . in cell-type premises, the following persons shall be detained: convicted men sentenced to life imprisonment . men convicted of a premeditated grave or particularly grave crime while serving a sentence of imprisonment . in maximum-security correctional facilities, convicts shall have the right to spend, without limitation, the money earned in the correctional facility . if they are conscientious about their behaviour and their attitude to work, after serving at least half of their sentence, they shall be entitled to improved conditions of detention . if necessary, orphanages shall be set up in correctional facilities . nursing mothers and pregnant women may receive food parcels . children in an orphanage may be handed over to relatives or referred to child-care facilities after reaching the age of three . convicted women who have a conscientious attitude to work may be allowed to live outside a correctional facility . in juvenile correctional facilities, convicts have the right to: . have visits from relatives and others and use mobile phones at their own expense . convicted minors may be granted the following incentives other than those provided for in Article 130 of the Code: right to attend cultural, entertainment and sporting events outside the juvenile correctional facility . senior educators and educators shall have the right to impose incentives and penalties . penalties may be imposed for violations of the established procedure and conditions for serving their sentences . the educator shall have the right to impose the following incentives and penalties: commendation; early discharge of the penalty previously imposed by them; admonition; reprimand . convicts who have reached the age of eighteen shall be transferred from the juvenile correctional facility to serve their sentences further . a board of trustees shall be established in juvenile correctional facilities . parents' committees may be set up within the social and psychological service departments . convicts sentenced to life imprisonment shall be detained separately from other convicts . a convict sentenced to life imprisonment shall be subject to the rights and obligations provided for in Article 107 of this Code . he may be transferred from cell-type premises to ordinary residential premises . counselling centres shall be set up in the correctional facilities for those with no secondary education . convicts sentenced to life imprisonment who maliciously violate the established procedure for serving their sentence may be transferred from ordinary residential premises to cell-type premises . change of detention conditions shall not apply to convicts with venereal diseases, active tuberculosis or mental disorders . convicted women sentenced o life imprisonment shall be usually accommodated in the medium-security sectors of minimum-security correctional facilities . convicts sentenced to arrest, restriction of freedom or imprisonment shall be released on the first half of the last day of the sentence . the person being released shall be given a full settlement, documents, valuables and belongings shall be returned . early release from serving a sentence shall be carried out on the day of receipt of the relevant documents . in the case of a convict who may be released on parole or commuted the unserved portion of the sentence under Articles 81, 82 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the penitentiary authority or institution shall, within one month, submit a motion to the court . the submission for release from serving the sentence due to mental disease shall be referred to a court by the head of the institution . if the court refuses to grant the release on parole, the repeated submission in this matter may if a woman sentenced to community service or correctional labour is found to be pregnant, the competent probation authority shall file a submission to the court for her early release from serving the sentence . convicts who become pregnant or give birth to children while serving their sentence shall have the obligations and enjoy the rights established for Ukrainian citizens . prisons shall organise courses to prepare convicts for release . minors who are deprived of parental care shall be placed in residential schools . persons released from serving their sentence shall be provided with free transport to their place of residence or work within Ukraine . administrative supervision shall be established for persons referred to in Article 3 of the Law of Ukraine "On Administrative Supervision over the Persons Released from the Places of Deprivation of Liberty" a judge’s resolution to establish or terminate administrative supervision in the cases envisaged in clauses “b” and “d” of Article 3 . the supervision over the behaviour of persons released from serving a sentence with probation during the probationary period shall be carried out by an authorised probation authority . the probationary period shall be calculated from the moment the sentence is pronounced by the court . if a convict does not fulfil the obligations imposed on them, the authorised probation authority shall file a submission to the court to revoke the release from serving the sentence with probation . the submission to revoke the release from serving the sentence with probation shall be filed to the court . if a convict released from probation does not fulfil the obligations specified by law and imposed on them by the court, the authorised probation authority shall apply a written warning of revoking the release . the submission shall be refiled if the court refuses to grant the submission . as this Code enters into force, the following legislation shall lose its effect . correctional Labour Code of the Ukrainian SSR was approved in 1971 . existing procedure for recording persons released on parole shall continue . rank and file and commanding officers of the penitentiary system shall be subject to Articles 22 and 23 of the Law of Ukraine "On police" Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall bring its regulatory acts in line with this Code . within six months of the date this Code is published, proposals shall be submitted to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine .