the law defines the legal, economic, environmental and organisational principles of the use of alternative energy sources . it promotes the expansion of their use in the fuel and energy sector . wind power plants shall mean an electrical installation that converts the kinetic wind energy into electrical energy . renewable energy sources shall mean renewable non-fossil energy sources, . “green” tariff shall mean a special tariff at which the electricity generated by electric power facilities (start-up facilities) is purchased . micro-hydroelectric power plant shall mean an electric power plant that produces electricity through the use of hydro energy, the installed capacity of which does not exceed 200 kW . a power plant may comprise start-up complexes, which according to the construction design documentation are functionally interconnected . auction price shall mean the price of 1 kilowatt-hour of electricity offered by the business entity, which has been recognised as the winner of the support quota distribution auction . electronic trading system provides the ability to create, place, publish and exchange information and documents in electronic form, necessary for the electronic auction process . auction price is determined by the number of business entities that participate in the auction and the price paid by the winning business entity . the term “electricity producer”, “consumer”, “guaranteed electricity buyer” and “transmission system operator” shall be used in this Law . the basic principles of state policy in the field of alternative energy sources shall be as follows: increasing production and consumption of energy produced from alternative sources . this Law shall be based on the Constitution of Ukraine and consist of this Law and other regulatory acts governing relations in this sphere . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and other competent executive authorities shall implement state policy in the field of alternative energy sources and administer it . Article 5 of the law provides for the development of national, sectoral and local programmes, as well as their scientific, scientific-technical and financial-economic support . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may allocate funds from the state budget for the financial support of the guaranteed buyer to pay for electricity produced from alternative sources . in order to confirm the electricity origin, the business entity that is the producer of electricity from alternative energy sources shall be granted a guarantee . the procedure for setting up a fund for targeted financing of these measures and exercising control over the targeted use of these funds . procedure for issuance, use and termination of the guarantee of electricity origin for business entities shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . “green” tariff shall be set by the national energy and utilities regulating commission . incentives for the production of electricity from alternative energy sources provided for in this article shall apply to: electric power facilities or their construction stages (start-up complexes) the “green” tariff has been set for each business entity producing electricity from alternative energy sources . the tariff for electricity produced by generating installations of private households, consumers, including energy cooperatives, shall be equal for all consumers for each type of alternative energy source . if a business entity produces electricity from wind energy, its tariff shall be set at the level of the retail tariff for consumers of the second voltage class . biomass shall mean the non-fossil biologically renewable organic substance . “green” tariff for business entities producing electricity from biogas shall be set at the level of the retail tariff for consumers of the second voltage class as of January 2009 . the “green” tariff for electricity produced by private households from solar energy and wind energy from combined wind and solar generating systems . the tariff is set at the level of the retail tariff for consumers of the second voltage class as of January 2009, multiplied by the tariff for private households . electricity from wind energy by generating installations with an installed capacity not exceeding 150 kW is also set . the "green" tariff for electricity produced by consumers, including by energy cooperatives, from solar energy and wind energy on combined wind and solar generating systems . the “green” tariff for hydro energy by generating installations with an installed capacity not exceeding 150 kW shall be set at the level of the retail tariff for consumers of the second voltage class . the coefficient of the “green” tariff for electricity generated by generating installations of consumers, including energy cooperatives, with an installed capacity not exceeding 150 kW, shall be set at the level: a certificate issued by the authorised body certifying compliance with the completed project design documentation . for electric power facilities having a "green" tariff, after reconstruction, technical re-equipment, overhaul with increased installed capacity, the "green tariff" shall be calculated using the " green" tariff coefficient, defined by Article 9-1 of the the “green” tariff for electric power facilities commissioned before 31 December 2024, and private households and consumers, including energy cooperatives, cannot be less than the fixed minimum “green" tariff amount . if at the commissioned power plant construction stages (start-up complexes), different “green“ tariff coefficients should be applied . the premium for compliance with the level of use of the equipment produced in Ukraine shall be set and be applicable for the entire “green” tariff validity period . the procedure for stimulating the production of electricity from alternative energy sources is established pursuant to the provisions of this Article on the date of power facilities commissioning . the state shall guarantee the enshrining in law for the entire “green” tariff validity period of the requirements for the purchase in each billing period of electricity generated at the electric power facilities . the premium for compliance with the level of use of the equipment produced in Ukraine shall be a fixed premium to the “green" tariff or the auction price . the premium for compliance with the level of use of the equipment produced in Ukraine shall be set in monetary terms by the National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission . the premium shall be calculated by the guaranteed buyer every month when calculating the cost for increasing the share of electricity produced from alternative energy sources . specific percentages of equipment pieces shall be as follows: a) at the electric power facilities, including the commissioned power plants construction stages (start-up complexes), producing electricity from wind energy . the state shall guarantee the enshrining in law for the entire “green” tariff validity period and the period of support for producers of electricity from alternative energy sources . the auction results have acquired the right to support, the requirements for the purchase in each billing period of electricity produced at the electric power facilities . support for the producers of electricity from alternative energy sources shall be provided by a guarantee of the purchase of all electricity supplied by such producers at the auction price . the business entities intending to produce electricity from wind or solar energy shall participate in the auction . other business entities, regardless of the installed capacity of the facility and the alternative energy source, may participate on a voluntary basis . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine annually, no later than December 1, shall establish an annual support quota and auction schedule for next year . the support is divided into shares by separate alternative energy sources: for electric power facilities or stages (start-up complexes) of electric power plants producing electricity from solar energy, the size of such a share may not be less than 10 per cent . auctions for the distribution of support quotas shall be held for separate alternative energy sources . only electricity generated by micro, mini and small hydroelectric power plants if hydro energy is used. the guaranteed buyer shall be responsible for organising and holding the auctions . auctions for the distribution of annual support quotas shall be held according to the annual auction schedule . to participate in the auction, business entities shall interact through electronic platforms . irrevocable bank guarantee for participation in the auction shall be submitted by the business entity separately for each electric power facility or stage (start-up complex) of the power facility . auction participants shall submit closed bids containing: a price bid reflecting (determining) the price offered by the auction participant for the sale of 1 kilowatt-hour of electricity . price bid of the bidder participating in auction for the distribution of the support quota for electric power facilities or construction stages may not exceed 9 Eurocents per 1  price bid of the bidder participating in the auction for the distribution of part of the support quota for electric power facilities or their construction stages (start-up complexes) may not be higher than 12 Eurocents per 1 kilowatt-hour . capacity amount for which, as a result of the auction, participants acquire the right to support, may not exceed 80 per cent of the total capacity amount offered . the business entity shall have the right to receive no more than 25 per cent of the annual support quota for the respective year . the bid opening protocol shall be formed automatically and published in electronic form . if the auction winner refuses to sign the protocol on the auction results, the electronic trading system shall automatically generate and publish a new protocol . if the business entity acquires the right to more than 25 per cent of the annual quota of support for the respective year . the irrevocable bank guarantee provided for participation in the auction shall be returned to the auction winner . the guaranteed buyer shall guarantee the purchase of all electricity supplied by such business entity at the price determined by the auction results . the contract shall stipulate the auction winner's obligations for the construction and commissioning of the electric power facility . if the business entity has not provided an act on provision of services for connection of the facility to the electric network . the term of construction and commissioning of the electric power facility may be extended by one year . in case of force majeure, the obligations of the business entity regarding the period of support shall be extended . the “green” tariff for business entities producing electricity from alternative energy sources from 1 august 2020 . business entities producing electricity from solar energy and/or wind energy at electric power facilities or their construction stages (start-up complexes) multiplying the “green” tariff by decreasing coefficients established by the National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission, under Article 9-1 of this Law . a “green” electrometallurgy enterprise shall mean a legal entity engaged in steel production business in compliance with the standards on direct carbon dioxide emissions from steel production at the level of not more than 250 kilograms per ton of steel products and exclusively by electric arc production method . a business entity producing electricity from solar energy at electric power facilities or their construction stages (start-up complexes) commissioned from 1 January 2020 . a tariff shall be set for the transmission of electricity purchased for steel production . the state shall guarantee that the "green" tariff will not be changed or cancelled . there are special provisions relating to the use of alternative energy sources . the final energy output significantly exceeds the initial consumption of energy required to actuate the heat pumps . exploitation of alternative energy sources at alternative energy facilities shall be carried out under the following conditions: safe works, state supervision over energy consumption regimes . state supervision in the field of alternative energy sources shall be carried out by an ad hoc central executive authority in the relevant field and other authorities . if an international treaty of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine sets other rules other than those contained in this Law, rules of the treaty shall apply . this Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication.