Adaptation of the Ukrainian legislation to the legislation of the European Union means the gradual adoption and implementation of the regulatory acts of Ukraine developed taking into account the EU legislation . this Concept shall define the preconditions for the development of the national programme for the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to the Legislation of the european union . the state policy of Ukraine on the adaptation of legislation is developed as a component of legal reform in Ukraine . it is aimed at ensuring joint approaches to the regulatory acts drafting with the mandatory consideration of the EU legislation . a key factor of the legal reform implementation and the Ukrainian integration to the european union will be the developing and implementing of the National Programme . the purpose of the National Programme is to build a background for developing a legislative framework for Ukraine's entry into the European Union . main tasks are to ensure the compliance of the legislation of Ukraine with the obligations arising from the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities . single rules for drafting the regulatory acts in the process of adaptation of legislation, that are obligatory for all subjects of the right of legislative initiative . national programme should provide for: annual development of a joint work plan of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for adapting legislation . priority allocation of resources under the National Indicative Programme TACIS for Ukraine for 2002-2003 and subsequent years . National Programme should ensure consistency, complexity and coordination of the development of adaptation process of the Ukrainian legislation to the EU legislation . a special priority is the comprehensive protection of human rights and freedoms, he says . priority should be given to measures aimed at ensuring human rights, rule of law . adaptation process should cover all areas of the Ukrainian legislation, says vladimir yeltsin . bringing the legislation of Ukraine in line with the requirements of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities and their Member states . the beginning of the next stage of the legislative adaptation process will be associated, in particular, with Ukraine's membership in the world trade organization . drafts of the National Programme and annual work plans for the adaptation of legislation are prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . National Programme should consist of some separate sections, determined according to priority areas of legislative adaptation . it should include assessment of compliance of the Ukrainian legislation with the European Union legislation . ensuring the proper professional level of state authorities, including improving skills of foreign languages ??(languages ??of the EU Member states) introduction of effective judicial protection mechanism of the rights and interests of the participants of legal relations arising on the basis of these provisions . staffing of the National Programme will require, in particular, revision of the curricula on legal issues in order to adapt them to the curriula of the european union . Financing of measures aimed at the implementation of the National Programme at each level will be carried out at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine . to organize the work properly, relevant expenditures in the state budget of Ukraine will be provided annually . implementation will support the achievement of the criteria for concluding an association agreement with the european union .