aquaculture (fish farming) is an agricultural activity for artificial breeding, support and cultivation of aquaculture objects in completely or partially controlled conditions . gene pool collections are genetically representative population of live fish or other hydrobionts, cryopreserved or preserved by other instrumentalities of genetic materials . aquaculture is an activity for obtaining agricultural products (aquaculture products) and their sale, feed production, reproduction of bioresources . aquaculture zones are the territories of Ukraine the borders of which are conditionally established according to climatic characteristics for aquaculture (fish farming) according to the number of days during the year, during which the average air temperature exceeds 15°C . aquaculture is an activity related to artificial breeding, support and cultivation of aquaculture objects using fish and floating gardens, fish pools, and other technological devices . aquaculture objects are hydrobionts used for breeding, support and cultivation in aquaculture conditions . intensive aquaculture is an organisational and technological form of fishery activity in the field of aquaculture . semi-intensive aquaculture involves the use of separate means of intensification, as well as limited artificial feedings of various nutritional value . natural feed supplies of water objects is a complex of living plant and animal organisms and their dead remains (detritus), used by hydrobionts as natural feed . recreational services in the field of aquaculture are actions related to the organisation of recreation . aquaculture products are aquaculture objects obtained in the result of economic activities, as well as food and non-food products made from them . fishery melioration is a set of measures aimed at optimising the indicators of hydrological, hydrochemical, hydrobiological regimes . pond aquaculture are the actions of breeding, support and cultivation of aquaculture objects using fish ponds, artificially created reservoirs, estuaries, watered peat quarries . law on aquaculture is based on norms of the constitution of Ukraine . it applies to legal relations in the field of aquaculture carried out in inland water objects (their parts), fishery technology reservoirs, territorial sea and exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine, as well as on land areas of Ukraine used for aquaculture purposes . aquaculture entities have a right: to use fishery water objects (their parts) aquaculture subjects are obliged to: preserve the regulations in the field of aquaculture . aquaculture objects must be used for aquaculture purposes only . aquaculture objects that are bred, supported and/or grown by aquaculture subjects are objects of state or municipal property . powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the field of aquaculture include the following: ensuring the formation of state policy, approval of standard form of contract for use of water area (water space) powers of central executive authority which provides the component of the state policy in the field of fishery . powers of ministers council of the autonomous republic of crimea in field aquaculture include participation in developing and implementation of federal programs, republican programs . aquaculture may be performed with the following purpose in accordance with activity directions: receiving of aquaculture commercial products and their further sale (commercial aquaculture); artificial breeding (reproduction), cultivation of aquatic bioresources; providing of recreational services . aquaculture objects, migrated into water objects (their parts) belong to state property . aquaculture subjects define the places within the limits provided for the use of fishery water object (its part), fishery technology reservoir . fish farming aquatic object is provided to be used for the aquaculture purposes by legal entity or individual on lease terms . parts of fishery water object are provided for use by legal entities or individuals . authorities performing the order of land plots under water (water space) in accordance with Land Code of Ukraine, contract of lease on land in complex with water object located on it . when the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine provides legal entity or individual with the water areas (water space) inland sea waters, territorial sea, as well as exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine for use on lease terms, allotment of a land plot of coastal protective strips and drainage strips is not carried out . methodology of payment amount determination for the use of the part of fishery water object, fishery technology reservoir is approved by central executive authority . lease contract shall define the obligations of the lessee to implement measures to protect and prevent aggravation of the ecological status of the fishery water object, water area (water space) of inland sea waters, territorial sea, exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine . harvesting (catching) of aquatic bioresources for aquaculture purposes is carried out during the industrial period defined by the legislation . live fish into Ukraine, fertilised caviar and other hydrobionts are placed in quarantine fishery isolators . hydrobionts imported from abroad, aimed for further breeding, keeping and cultivation in aquaculture conditions, are permanently for a period defined by the legislation . fishery melioration of water objects (their parts) and fishery technology reservoirs is carried out for the purposeful increase of biological productivity . removal of predatory and low-value species of aquatic bioresources in order to prevent their negative impact on aquaculture objects . aquaculture entities perform breeding and/or cultivation of alien and non-native species of hydrobionts in aquaculture conditions with mandatory notification to the central executive authority implementing state policy in fishery . scientific and biological rationale should reveal the target and expediency, determine the conditions of breeding . central executive authority provides control over breeding and/or cultivation of alien and non-native species of hydrobionts in aquaculture conditions . scientific support in the field of aquaculture is performed by scientific institutions, scientific enterprises and organisations, breeding centers . state support in the field of aquaculture is provided in accordance with the laws of Ukraine . enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens of Ukraine, as well as foreign legal entities, individuals and entities without citizenship, are obliged to compensate the damages, made by them . international cooperation in the field of aquaculture is performed by concluding international treaties . this Law shall enter into force on 1 July 2013, except for clause 3 of this Section . amendments shall be made to the following legislative acts of Ukraine . reservoirs, ponds, lakes and natural closed reservoirs may be available for use on a lease basis for fishery management needs . water objects are given for use in accordance with lease contract for lands of aquatic fund during land auctions . lease contract shall define the terms of water object use, amount of lease payment and period of lease contract on water objects . the lease contract of the water object defines the obligations to implement measures to protect and improve the ecological condition . lessees may allow other water users to bring about special water use in accordance with the procedure established by this Code . the assignment of parts of fishery water objects, fishery technological reservoirs, water areas (water space) of inland sea waters, territorial sea, exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine for use for aquaculture purposes is regulated by the Law of Ukraine “On aquaculture” paragraph 2 of Article 1 shall be deleted; text of Article 42 shall be revised . cabinet of ministers shall prepare and submit draft to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . spheres of regulation of relations: collection of lease payment for water objects (their parts)