this Law defines the legal, economic, and organisational framework for the state regulation of innovation activities in Ukraine . it is aimed at supporting the development of the Ukrainian economy through innovation . “innovations” shall mean newly created (applied) and (or) improved competitive technologies, products or services . the legislation of Ukraine in the field of innovation activities is based on the constitution of Ukraine . main purpose of state innovation policy shall be creating socio-economic, organisational and legal conditions for effective reproduction, development and use of scientific and technical potential . subject of innovation activities may be individuals and (or) legal entities of Ukraine . verkhovna rada of Ukraine, oblast and raion councils within their competence define unified state policy in the field of innovation . local governments are responsible for implementing state, sectoral, regional and local innovation programmes . local government authorities within their competence shall approve local innovation programmes . establish municipal innovation financial and credit institutions for support of local innovation programs . Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall exercise public administration and ensure implementation of state policy in the field of innovation activities . central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of innovations shall: take measures for implementing a unified scientific-technical and innovation policy . submit proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on strategic priority directions of innovation activities . the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea, local state administrations, executive local government authorities in the field of innovation activities . 1. develop projects for regional innovation programmes and submit them for approval to the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblast and raion councils, respectively . 2. entrust state innovation financial and credit institutions (their regional offices) to conduct a competitive selection of innovation projects of local innovation programmes . state control in the field of innovation activities shall be carried out for ensuring compliance of all subjects with the requirements of the legislation on innovation activities . state support of the implementation of the innovation project stipulated by this Law shall be provided on the condition of its state registration . innovation projects shall be funded through lending from the state budget through the state innovation financial and credit institutions . projects recognised as innovation ones by the results of the examination shall be entered by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of innovation activities in the State Register of Innovation Projects . the certificate of state registration of an innovation project shall be valid for seven years from the date of its issue . after completion of this period, the certificate and entry in the state register of innovation projects shall be cancelled . a product must be the result of an innovation project and scientific and research and (or) development of new technology . innovative products may be recognised as innovative products if they are not intended for replication . the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of innovation activities shall make the decision based on the results of an examination . an innovation enterprise shall be an enterprise (association of enterprises) if more than 70 per cent of the volume of its products (in monetary terms) are innovative products and (or) innovative product . financial support for innovation activities may be provided through: a) full interest-free lending (on the terms of inflation indexation) of priority innovation projects at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine . specialised state non-bank financial and credit institutions shall be established to provide financial support for innovation activities of economic entities of various forms of ownership . funds of the State innovation financial . and credit institution shall be formed at the expense of the state budget of . Ukraine defined by the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine . local governments may establish municipal ad hoc non-bank innovation financial and credit institutions to provide financial support for local innovation programmes . local governments shall establish municipal credit institutions and subordinate them to the executive local government authorities . if a municipality establishes a municipal credit institution, it shall be deemed to be a credit institution . municipal innovation financial and credit institutions shall operate based on the Regulations (Charters) about them, which shall be developed and approved by the local governments . they may provide at the expense of the appropriate local budget the financial support, the types of which are provided for in Article 17 of this Law . municipal innovation financial and credit institution shall submit an annual report in the local mass media on innovation projects financed by it and the results of their implementation . inform about innovation projects that are subject to the provisions of the Law of Ukraine "On state secret" section VI INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION IN THE FIELD OF INNOVATION ACTIVITIES