land is a national wealth that is under special state protection . land relations shall mean public relations concerning the possession, use and disposal of land . objectives of land legislation is to ensure that citizens, legal entities, territorial communities and the state have the land right . powers of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine in the field of land relations shall be as follows: a) adoption of laws; b) determination of principles of state policy; c) approval of national programmes for land use and protection; d) establishing and changing the boundaries of raions and cities; e) coordination of issues related to the change of purpose of especially valuable state-owned and municipal property lands, termination of the permanent use right under this Code; f) addressing other issues in the powers of Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils in the field of land relations on their territory shall be as follows: a) disposal of land pertaining to the city territorial community; b) transfer of municipal land plots to the ownership of citizens and legal entities under this Code . raion councils shall be able to: i) approve and participate in the implementation of regional programmes of land use, increasing soil fertility, land protection; ii) establish and change of boundaries of villages, settlements that are village, settlement, city councils and their executive bodies in the field of land relations in the territory of villages, settlements, and cities shall be as follows: a) disposal of lands on the right of joint ownership of respective territorial communities; b) transfer of municipal land plots to the ownership of citizens and legal entities under this Code . powers of village, settlement, city councils in the field of land relations within the territory of villages, settlements, cities shall be as follows: 1) provision of information from the State Land Cadastre under the law . powers of the central executive authority shaping state policies in the sphere of land use and protection . implementing state policies in the field of environmental protection, rational use, restoration and protection of natural resources, as well as in the sphere of land relations . competence of the central executive authority includes state control over compliance by executive authorities and local governments, enterprises, institutions, organisations . ensuring the implementation of land engineering, land monitoring and state control on land use and protection . powers of the central executive authority implementing state policies in the field of land relations shall be as follows: a) making proposals in a due manner on the disposal of state-owned and municipal lands . b) participating in the development and implementation of state, sectoral, regional and local programmes . council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea has powers in land relations . they include maintaining state records and registration of lands, and reclamation of disturbed lands . powers of the Council of Ministers in the field of land relations shall be as follows . local state administrations in the field of land relations shall be as follows: a) disposal of state-owned lands within the scope under this Code; b) participation in the development and implementation of national and regional (republican) programmes on land use and protection . e) redemption of land plots for public needs within the limits specified by law . the lands of Ukraine include all lands within its territory, including islands and lands occupied by water bodies . land plots of each land category, which have not been provided to the ownership or use of citizens or legal entities, may be in reserve . change of purpose of privately owned plots shall be carried out at the initiative of plots' owners . the land engineering project for the allocation of a private land plot, the purpose of which is changed, shall be developed at the land owner's request . the refusal of the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea, an executive authority or a local government may be appealed in court . land plots of defence purpose shall be used exclusively under the law of Ukraine “On Use of Defence Lands”. change of especially valuable land's purpose shall be allowed only for allocation on them of objects of national importance, roads, power transmission and communication lines, pipelines, geodetic points . materials for the location of the object, which is supposed to be placed on the land plot with the change of its purpose, shall be approved in coordination with the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . violation of the procedure for establishing and changing the land purpose will be basis for invalidation of government decisions, refusal of state registration of land plots  lands able to be used for agricultural purpose shall be provided primarily for agricultural use . agricultural lands may not be transferred to the ownership of foreign nationals, stateless persons, foreign legal entities and foreign states . land plots of state-owned and municipal agricultural enterprises, institutions and organisations, shall be allocated for these purposes . state-owned and municipal agricultural enterprises, institutions and organisations may take a lease of land plots owned by citizens and legal entities . in case of liquidation of a state or municipal enterprise, institution, organisation, the lands in their permanent use shall be transferred to the reserve lands . the area of lands transferred to private ownership shall be the difference between the total area of land permanently used by agricultural enterprises . the total size of the agricultural land area calculated for privatisation shall be divided by the total number of individuals specified in part 1 of this article . the sizes of land plots allocated for employees of relevant enterprises, institutions and organisations and pensioners from among them shall be equal . reserve fund of lands shall remain in state or municipal ownership and be intended for further redistribution and use . agricultural lands may be privately owned by the agricultural enterprises, institutions and organisations save for state and municipal ones . the right of ownership of land belonging to these enterprises may be acquired by contributing to the authorised capital of land plots of their founders . citizens who are members of individual farms shall have the right to receive land plot in the amount of the land share (pai), free of charge . land plots intended for personal peasant farming may be transferred by citizens . foreign nationals and stateless persons, as well as legal entities, may possess land on lease terms . citizens of Ukraine shall have the right to acquire free of charge or take a lease . public lands of a gardening society include occupied by protective belts . citizens or their associations may take a lease of land plots for vegetable gardening from the state or municipal lands . it is prohibited to establish the perennial gardens, erect the major buildings and structures . temporary structures for inventory storage and weather protection may be erected . after the expiration of the lease, the constructed temporary structures are subject to demolition . a person who owns the right to use a significant part of the area of agricultural lands shall be authorised to use (lease, emphyteusis) land plots . state-owned or municipal land plot occupied by field roads may be leased without land auctions to owners and/or users . the lease period for such plots shall be 7 years . land plots occupied by field-protective forest belts limiting the area of agricultural lands, shall be transferred for permanent use to state or municipal specialised enterprises . citizens of Ukraine by decision of executive authorities or local governments may obtain free of charge or take a lease of land plot . housing-construction (residential) and garage-building cooperatives may acquire ownership of plots under civil law agreements . land plots comprising multi-family residential buildings shall be provided for permanent use . nature reserve fund's lands include natural territories and objects of special nature protection . land of other nature protection purpose and its use shall be determined by the law . in case of destruction (demolition) of a building, the property rights to the land plot comprising such building shall be retained by co-owners . land plots within which there are natural objects of special scientific value . lands of health-improving purpose shall include lands used for disease prevention and treatment . the procedure for the use of the land of recreational purpose shall be determined by the law . land of recreational purpose may be in state, municipal and private ownership . land of historical and cultural purpose includes lands on which cultural heritage monuments, their complexes (ensembles) are located . forest fund lands include lands covered with forest vegetation, non-forest lands, which are provided and used for forestry needs . water fund lands may be in state, municipal and private ownership . citizens and legal entities may obtain right of ownership to the closed forest fund land plots free of charge . owners may create fishery, anti-erosion and other artificial water bodies . executive authorities or local governments may lease to citizens and legal entities from the water fund lands . shoreline protection belts shall be established along rivers, seas and around lakes, reservoirs and other water bodies . at steepness of slopes more than three degrees, the minimum width of a shoreline protector belt doubles . shoreline protection belts shall be at least two kilometres wide from the water's edge . citizens shall be provided with unimpeded and free access to the marine coasts, marine bays, estuaries and islands . any restraints of the citizen's access, including by means of installing fences or other structures, shall be the ground for termination of the right to use land plots . facilities located within the shoreline protection belts may be operated, provided that its regime is not violated . fences or other structures that prevent citizens from accessing the river banks, water bodies and islands shall be dismantled by their owners . erection of structures, including recreation centres, cottages, garages and parking lots, is prohibited . in the shoreline protection belts along seas, marine bays and estuaries and on islands in the internal sea waters, the following shall be prohibited . installation of landfills for household and industrial waste and storage facilities of sewage water . use of potent pesticides; burning of dry vegetation or its remnants in violation of the procedure established by the central executive authority . land plots within right-of-way zones shall be provided for the creation of water protection plantations, shore protection and anti-erosion hydraulic structures, construction of crossings, etc. shorelines of waterways shall be established on navigable waterways outside settlements for carrying out works related to navigation . land of industrial, transportation, communications, power, defence and other purpose are plots provided in the prescribed manner to enterprises, institutions and organisations . land plots of all ownership forms and categories shall be granted to holders of special permits for research and industrial development . lands of nature reserves, lands . of health-improving, recreational, historical and cultural purposes, as well as water fund lands are not included . traffic lands include lands occupied by buildings and equipment of energy, garage and fuel distribution facilities, bus terminals, bus stations, linear production facilities, service and technical buildings . air transport lands shall include the lands of: a) airports, aerodromes, separate structures (air traffic control facilities, radio navigation and landing, treatment and other facilities) and b) helicopter stations, including heliports with all buildings and structures . protection zones shall be established along ground surface, above-ground and underground pipelines . land plots for electric generating objects (nuclear, thermal, hydroelectric power plants, power plants using wind and solar energy and other sources) may be in state, municipal and private ownership . military units of the state border guard service of Ukraine for construction, arrangement and maintenance of engineering and fortification structures, fences, border signs, communications are provided for permanent use . special provisions for alienation of land plots comprising immovable military property subject to the disposal, shall be established by the law . the formation of a land plot involves determining its area, boundaries and entering information about it in the State Land Cadastre . land plots shall be considered to be formed from the moment they have been assigned a cadastral number . state registration of property rights to land plots shall be carried out after state registration . land plot's state registration shall be revoked in case of division or consolidation . citizens of Ukraine acquire right of ownership to land on basis of contract of sale, rent, gift, exchange . foreign nationals and stateless persons may acquire rights of ownership to non-agricultural land plots within settlements, as well as outside settlements where the objects of immovable property belonging to them on private property rights are located . Agricultural lands inherited by foreigners shall be subject to alienation during the year . territorial communities of villages, settlements and cities shall be the municipal ownership . state-owned land plots to be used to accommodate facilities intended to serve the needs of the territorial community, shall be transferred to the municipal ownership by decisions of executive authorities . lands occupied by the objects of nature reserve fund, historical-cultural and health-improving purpose, except for the cases specified by this Code, unless otherwise provided by the law . territorial communities acquire the right of municipal ownership to land in the case of: a) transfer of state-own lands to them; b) acceptance of inheritance or transfer to territorial communities of villages, settlements, cities may unite their land plots of municipal ownership on a contractual basis . the right of state ownership to land shall be acquired and exercised by the state . state-owned lands that cannot be transferred to private ownership include: a) lands of nuclear energy and space system; b) land under occupied by railways . a land plot may be in joint ownership with the determination of the share of each of the participants in the joint ownership . a participant of joint shared ownership of the land plot shall have the right to own and use a part of the joint land plot that corresponds to the size of their share . the right of joint ownership to land shall arise: a) in case of voluntary association of the owners of their land plots . a land plot may belong as the right of joint common ownership only to citizens . a trustee of the land plot shall have the rights and perform the duties of land plot's owner . land plots may be divided by co-owners, except in cases established by the law . land plot owners must ensure that the land plots are used according to their intended purpose . they must also comply with the requirements of environmental legislation and pay land tax in a timely manner . land owners' responsibilities shall be subject to restoration in the manner prescribed by the law . the right of permanent land plot use shall mean the right to own and use the state-owned or municipal land plot, without setting a period . right of lease a land plot shall be contributed by the state to the authorised capital of a public joint-stock company of rail transport . land plots may be leased to citizens and legal entities of Ukraine, foreign nationals and stateless persons, foreign legal entities, international associations and organisations, as well as foreign states . the lease period of the land plot may not exceed 50 years . if the lessee of a land plot is the initiator of an industrial park, such land plot or parts thereof shall be subleased . for the implementation of public-private partnership, including concessions, land plots shall be leased to a private partner (concessionaire) in accordance with the procedure established by this Code . plots may be transferred to other persons only if state partner or concessionaire decides to cancel the tender or recognise the tender as not having taken place . the transfer of buildings, structures, other immovable property of state and/or municipal institutions, organisations shall be the basis for termination of the rights of permanent use of the land . land users have the right to manage the land independently, own the seeds and plantings of agricultural and other crops, as well as to own manufactured products . if land users violate their rights, they shall be subject to restoration in the manner prescribed by the law . the law may define other responsibilities of land users . enterprises, institutions and organisations carrying out geological exploration may carry out such works by virtue of an agreement with the land owner . exploration on the lands of reserves, national dendrological, botanical, memorial parks, burials and archaeological monuments shall be allowed in exceptional cases . land easement right means the right of the land plot's owner or user or other interested person to limited paid or gratuitous use of any third person's land plot . land easements may be permanent and temporary . the right to use land plot for research and commercial development of amber deposits, other minerals of national importance . easements may be established by a contract, law, will or court decision . an easement may belong to the owner (possessor) of a neighbouring land plot . land easements shall be subject to state registration in the manner prescribed by law . the land easement shall cease to be effective in the following cases . at the request of the land plot owner, this easement may be terminated in court . the right to use third party's land plot for agricultural purposes or for the construction may also arise by virtue of a will. the right to use third party's land plot for agricultural purposes (emphyteusis) may be alienated or transferred by inheritance . the period of use of the state-owned or municipal or private land plot may not exceed 50 years . by agreement of the parties, the contracts may be certified by a notary . setting (cancellation) of the requirement is a unilateral deed subject to notarial certification . a right to use third party's land plot for agricultural purposes (emphyteusis) and for the construction (superficies) shall become void in the case of: 1) the owner of the land plot and the land user are the same person; 2) the expiration of the period for which the right of use has been granted; 3) alienation . of private land plots for public needs or for reasons of public necessity . owners and users of land plots may demand the cessation of activities on a neighbouring land plot . if trees' branches and roots penetrate from one land plot to another, they may have the right to cut off the roots of trees and bushes . the land plot owner may demand from the neighbouring owner to assist in establishing clear boundaries, as well as in restoring boundary signs . neighbours may use border structures jointly by their mutual agreement . trees standing on the border of adjacent land plots shall belong to the owners in equal parts . a neighbour demanding to remove the trees shall bear the costs related to the removal of these trees . encumbrances of land plot rights shall be subject to state registration in the State Register of Property Rights to Immovable Property in accordance with the procedure established by the law . information about the limitations on the use of . land plots shall be indicated in land management schemes and feasibility studies of land use . and protection zones . sanitary protection zones shall be created around facilities with the underground and open water supply sources, water intake and water treatment facilities, water mains, health facilities . Article 115. Areas of special land use regime shall be around military facilities of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military units formed in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine . citizens and legal entities shall acquire rights to own and to use land plots from state-owned or municipal lands . acquisition of ownership right shall comply with the procedure specified in part one of Article 128 of this Code . land rights to be transferred into ownership or provided for use only after termination of ownership or use in manner prescribed by law . state-owned lands that cannot be transferred into municipal ownership include land plots used by the black sea fleet of the Russian Federation on the territory of Ukraine . a citizen interested in privatisation of a land plot in their use shall submit an application to the relevant executive authority or local government . the relevant local government or executive authority shall, within one month, consider the application and grant permission to enterprises, institutions and organisations . the transfer of land ownership to citizens that are employees of state and municipal agricultural enterprises, institutions and organisations, as well as pensioners from among them, shall be carried out after the approval of the land privatisation project . citizens interested in obtaining free ownership of land from state-owned or municipal lands for individual farming, personal peasant farming, gardening, construction and maintenance of a residential house, outbuildings and structures . the land engineering project for allotment of a land plot shall be developed at the request of citizens by economic entities that are executors of land engineering works . if the verkhovna rada, the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea, has not granted permission to develop the project, the citizen has the right to place an order . refusal of an executive authority or a local government to transfer the land plot into ownership or dismiss the application without consideration may be appealed in court citizens who in good faith, transparently and continuously use the land plot for 15 years, but do not have documents proving that they have rights to it, may apply to a state authority, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or a local government with a request to transfer . transfer of a land plot to the ownership or use of citizens on the basis of the acquisitive prescription shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure established by this Code . citizens of Ukraine shall have the right to free transfer of land plots from state-owned or municipal lands in the following sizes . the size of the land share (pai) shall be determined for members of agricultural enterprises located on the territory of the village, settlement or city council where the farm is located . in the case of acquisition of ownership of a residential house (except for a multi-family residential building), the area of the formed land plot cannot be less than the maximum size . the size of land plots transferred free of charge to a citizen for personal peasant farming may be increased in case of receiving a land share (pai) in kind . the verkhovna rada of the autonomous republic of crimea, oblast and raion councils may transfer land into ownership or use . regional state administrations on their territory shall transfer land plots from state-owned lands . the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea shall transfer such plots . land parcels that are withdrawn, redeemed or forcibly alienated for public needs shall be provided into use for such needs . provision of state-owned or municipal land plots into use shall be carried out by the verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea, executive authorities or local governments . the decision of these authorities shall rely on the land management projects for the allocation of a land plot . an investor with significant investments can order the development of technical documentation on land management to establish the boundaries of such land plot in kind (on the ground) without permission of the executive authority or local government, transferring the land into use in accordance with Article 122 of this Code . a person interested in obtaining a land plot from state or municipal lands under a . land management project for its allotment shall apply to obtain a permit . for the transfer of land plots into use . a copy of the decision on the feasibility of public-private partnership, in particular in the form of a concession shall be attached to the application . if an investor with significant investments, or a person authorised by them, applies for obtaining a permit to develop a land management project for the allocation of land plot . the relevant executive authority or local government within the scope of their powers during a month shall consider the application and give permission for the development . a person interested in obtaining of a land plot into use from state or municipal lands, within one month from the end of this period, shall have the right to place an order to develop the land management documents . the conditions and terms for the development of land management projects for the allocation of land plots shall be determined by the contract concluded between the customer and the executor of these works . if the location of the object, the size and boundaries of the land plot proposed for withdrawal (redemption) have not changed during the development of land management project for the allocation of a land plot, the project shall not be subject to approval . the relevant executive authority or local government shall adopt a decision whether to provide land plots into use . land management projects on allocation of land plots of the exclusion zone and the zone of unconditional (compulsory) resettlement management shall be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . if the land plot is leased for a public-private partnership, in particular a concession, it shall be leased after the conclusion of a contract . the decision of the executive authority, local government to lease it to a private partner, concessionaire shall mean also a decision to terminate the right of permanent use of division of state-owned or municipal land plot, which is in permanent use, shall not terminate the right of permanent use until the decision to lease it to a private partner, concessionaire . land plots required for a public-private partnership, in particular a concession, shall be leased . if the land is formed before concluding a special investment contract, its transfer to the use of an investor with significant investments shall be carried out . restriction on alienation of land plot by executive authorities or local governments expires after 12 months from the date of its formation . land plots defined by a special investment contract shall be transferred for use exclusively to the investor with significant investments . decision on granting a land plot for use under the land management project regarding its allotment shall authorise: the approval of the project for allocation of the land plot . the grounds for refusing to approve the project may be only its non-compliance with the legal requirements and refusal of an executive authority or a local government to transfer a land plot into use may be appealed in court . land plots owned by citizens, legal entities shall be leased under the lease contract . the right of ownership, use of the land plot shall arise from the moment of state registration . contract renewal may not be provided for in the land lease contract . a party to the contract willing to exercise the right to refuse to renew the contract shall submit to the State Register of Property Rights an application for exclusion from this register . the sale of state-owned or municipal land plots or the rights hereto shall be carried out on a competitive basis in the form of an auction . citizens and legal entities interested in acquiring land plots shall submit an application (petition) to the relevant executive authority or village, settlement, city council or state privatisation body . if a land plot is deemed to be unsuitable for the purpose specified by the law, it shall be sold . the land plot sale shall be carried out by local state administrations, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or local governments . land plot sale contracts shall be concluded under the procedure specified in part 1 of this article . land plot price shall be determined by expert monetary valuation conducted by business entities . settlements for the land plot acquisition may be contributed in instalments, but not more than for five years . the sale of state-owned land plots to foreign states and foreign legal entities shall be carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in coordination with the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . sale of municipal lands plots owned by territorial communities to foreign state and legal entities . consideration of the application and the sale . of state owned plots comprising the objects to be privatised, shall be . carried out in accordance with the state and/or local budgets in the manner prescribed by the law. citizens of Ukraine who have obtained agricultural education or work experience in agriculture or are engaged in commodity agricultural production have the right to purchase agricultural land plots . citizens and legal entities of Ukraine, as well as territorial communities and the state shall have right to acquire right of ownership . agreements on the transfer of the right of ownership shall be concluded in writing and certified by a notary . state-owned, municipal or private land plots may be pledged unless otherwise provided for by the law . a land plot or the right to it may be transferred as a pledge only if the land plot is assigned a cadastral number . the procedure for pledging a part of land plot may be carried out after its allocation in kind (on the ground) use of land plots comprising religious buildings by the religious organisations legalised in Ukraine . leasing land plot for the reconstruction of obsolete buildings, for the construction of social and affordable housing, if the tender for its construction has already been held . provision of a land plot purchased for public needs or forcibly alienated for reasons of public necessity . land plots of the exclusion zone and the zone of unconditional (compulsory) resettlement of the territory that was radioactively contaminated as a result of the Chernobyl disaster may be leased . land auctions shall be held in the form of an auction, upon which a contract of sale, lease, superficies, emphyteusis of the land plot is to be concluded . executor of land auctions shall be an economic entity to hold the land auction . land auction participant shall be individual or legal entity who has submitted documents specified in part seven of Article 137 of this Code, paid registration and guarantee fees . auctions concerning state-owned or municipal land plots or the rights hereto shall be carried out by the decision of the organiser . the land auction executor shall be paid a remuneration of 5 percent of the price of land purchase and sale transaction . the registration fee amount shall determine by the executor and may not exceed 50% of the subsistence minimum for able-bodied persons . paid amounts of registration fees shall not be refunded, except in the case specified in part 3 of Article 138 of this Code . land plots may not be alienated, pledged, transferred into use until the end of the auction . the starting sale price of the land plot in respect of state and municipal lands cannot be lower than the expert monetary valuation . a land auction organiser shall prepare the lots for land auction, including the location of the plot, its purpose, area, cadastral number . land auction organiser shall transfer no later than ten working days after signing the contract on holding of the auction . documents for each lot shall be executed by the land auction executor as a separate case and shall be transferred to the purchaser after the auction ends . land auctions shall be held no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days after the announcement has been published . the announcement shall contain photographs of land plots, copies of documents and materials pertaining to the lot . if a person wishing to take part in a land auction submits the following: a) application for participation in an auction; b) bank account numbers of the land auction executor, for payment of registration and guarantee fees . a copy of the certificate for the assignment of the registration number of the taxpayer's account card or passport number and series of an individual entrepreneur . foreign citizens and stateless persons shall provide their surname, name and patronymic, citizenship (political nationality) of another state, domicile in the country, where the person is a citizen . individuals shall provide information on their last name, first name and patronymic . legal entities established under the legislation of Ukraine shall provide the name, location, identification code . representatives of mass media and public associations shall have the right to be present during the auction . land auction shall begin with the auctioneer's announcement of the auction procedure . the lot shall be placed for auction in the presence of at least two registered participants . if no one has expressed a will to purchase the lot at the starting price, the lot is withdrawn from sale . participants shall announce their intention to purchase the lot at the price announced by the auctioneer . if the price offered by one of the participants exceeds the price announcement, the participant shall announce the participant's number and their offer . the silence of the participant who first raised the number plate after the announcement of the price shall be interpreted as the participants' consent . auctioneer may at any time at its own discretion offer participants to announce their price . if no one expresses a will to purchase the lot at the last price, the auctioneers may reduce the auction step . the winner, who refused to sign the protocol, shall be deprived of the right to further participate in the auction for this lot . the protocol shall be signed by the winner, the auctioneer and the auction organiser or its representative . the contract of sale of the land plot shall be concluded directly on the auction day . right to a land plot acquired as a result of the auction shall be subject to state registration . land auctions for a lot shall be considered to have taken place after the conclusion of the contract of sale, lease, superficies, emphyteusis of the land plot . in case of sale of a state-owned or municipal land plot or the right hereto, the land auction executor within seven banking days after the finish of auctions . land auction organiser or its representative authorised to conclude on the organiser's behalf shall be present at the auction . land auctions may be cancelled or deemed not to have taken place, or their results may be made null and void . the land auction organiser may cancel the auction before its start in case he or she receives the documents entailing the necessity to amend the land management and valuation documents . in the event of a decision to cancel, the guarantee fees paid by the participants shall not be refundable . if the auction has not taken place or their results have been made null and void, the repeated auction may be held . the winners of the previous auction, who have not paid the due amount for the purchased lot in a timely manner, shall not be allowed to participate . a land auction organiser shall not later than five working days after the auction place on the official website of the central executive authority implementing state policies . termination of the right to use the land plot shall be as follows: a) voluntary refusal from the right of use; b) withdrawal of land plot in the cases provided for by this Code; c) termination of activity of religious organisations, state or municipal enterprises, institutions and organisations . Article 142. Termination of right of ownership of a land plot . in case of voluntary refusal of the landowner in favour of the state or the territorial community . land plots used in violation of land legislation are subject to compulsory termination . the state inspector of agriculture, state inspector for environmental protection shall issue an instruction to eliminate it within 30 days to the person who committed the violation . in the case of failure to eliminate the violation within the specified period, the relevant executive authority or local government shall terminate the right to use the land plot . a person who is not entitled to possess the land plot shall have the right to lease it . a land plot can be confiscated only by court decision in cases, to the extent and in the manner prescribed by the law . the rights and obligations of the previous owner shall be transferred to the person that has acquired the right of ownership to land plot in permanent use . land plots provided for permanent use from state-owned and municipal lands may be withdrawn for public and other needs . cadastral number, location and area of land plot; name of new owner; place of residence (location) of the new owner . notification on the transfer of the right of ownership from the state to the territorial community or vice versa . raion state administrations on their territory shall withdraw state-owned land plots . lands shall include uneroded non-alkali black forest soil, hayfield-black soil, podsolic forest and gleyic black-soils . particularly valuable lands include brown mountain-forest and sod-brown deep and medium-deep soils, brown soils of the Southern coast of Crimea . a) peatlands with a depth of peat of more than one meter and drained regardless of the depth . b) lands provided for permanent use to NGO "Massandra" and its constituent enterprises . Article 151. Procedure for approval of issues related to the purchase of land plots owned by citizens or legal entities . legal entities interested in redemption of land plots shall apply to the relevant council . the standard application form for coordination of the object location shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . in case of urban planning objects, the location of which is determined by urban planning or land management documents . original application with annexes to the central executive authority implementing state policies in the field of land relations, according to the location of the land plot . authorities referred to in the second and third paragraphs of this part shall, within ten days since the application has been received, submit a conclusion on the coordination of the object location or a refusal of such coordination . the land plot owner or the land user may demand the elimination of any violations of its rights to land . in the cases provided for by this Code and other laws of Ukraine, it is allowed to redeem a land plot . the land owner shall be compensated for its value if it is redeemed . the former owner of the land plot redeemed for public needs, shall have the right to apply to the court for the recognition of the agreement as null and void, as well as for its termination . executive authorities and local governments may neither interfere in the exercise by the owner of its right to own, use and dispose of land plot belonging to it . damages caused to land plot owners as a result of the issuance of the specified acts shall be subject to compensation in full . compensation to land owners and land users shall be performed by executive authorities, local governments, citizens and legal entities using land plots . special provisions regarding compensation for losses incurred due to creation or change of boundaries of nature reserves, biosphere reserves, national nature parks . land disputes concerning possession, use and disposal of land owned by citizens shall be resolved exclusively by the court . land disputes shall be considered by the central executive authority implementing state policies in the field of land relations and by local governments . if one of the parties fails to appear in court for the first session and if no official consent to the issue consideration has been given, the dispute settlement shall be postponed . the parties to the land dispute have the right to read the materials on this dispute, make extracts from them, submit documents and other evidence . land protection is a system of legal, organisational, economic and other measures aimed at rational land use, protection from harmful anthropogenic impact, reproduction and increase of soil fertility . land protection includes: a) protection of agricultural lands, forest fund lands and shrubs from unjustified withdrawal for other needs . standardisation in the field of land protection and soil fertility restoration shall be carried out to ensure environmental and sanitary safety of citizens . land that have undergone changes in the structure of the relief, the ecological condition of soils and parent rocks, shall be subject to reclamation . economic and other activities causing pollution of lands and soils in excess of the established maximum permissible concentrations of hazardous substances shall be prohibited . land owners and land users shall not have the right to remove and transfer the land cover of land plots without the special permission . land owners and land users shall remove, lay, and store the surface soil layer and apply it to the area from which it was removed (reclamation) lands polluted as a result of human economic activity, which has led to land degradation and its negative impact on the environment and human health . technogenically contaminated agricultural lands not providing for the production of the products that meet the established requirements, shall be conserved . degraded and unproductive lands, the economic use of which is ecologically dangerous and economically inefficient, shall be subject to conservation . conservation of lands shall be carried out by terminating their economic use for a specified period . land plots within the boundaries of raion, village, settlement, city, district shall not entail the termination of the right of ownership and the right to use these plots . state-owned lands and land plots included in the boundaries of the settlement become the property of the territorial community . decisions on the establishment of boundaries of settlements shall be made by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine in coordination with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . regional land use and protection programmes shall be developed under the programmes of economic, scientific, technical and social development . regional land use and protection programmes shall be developed by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblast state administrations and approved by the Verkhovna Rada . land zoning shall mean division of territory taking into account natural conditions and agrobiological requirements of agricultural crops . land management provides for the following: a) establishment (restoration) of the boundaries of administrative-territorial units, land tenure and land use; b) development of national and regional land use and protection programmes . e) organisation of the territories owned by agricultural enterprises and creation of spatial conditions providing ecological and economic optimisation of use of agricultural lands . land management schemes and feasibility studies for the use and protection of lands within the administrative-territorial units shall be approved . land management projects shall provide ecological and economic substantiation of crop rotations, land management, as well as the development of land protection measures . land management schemes and feasibility studies for the use and protection of the lands within a raion shall be subject to strategic environmental assessment . land management projects on establishment (change) of the boundaries of administrative-territorial units shall be approved by village, settlement, city councils . the decision of the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the oblast council, the local government shall concurrently constitute a decision on approving such projects . territorial body of the central executive authority implementing state policies in the field of land relations . land management projects for the organisation and establishment of boundaries of nature reserves and other nature protection purposes . land management projects for privatisation of lands owned by municipal agricultural enterprises, institutions and organisations shall be approved by the general meeting of employees . projects on the organisation of the territory of land shares (paiv) shall be coordinated by the relevant village, settlement, city councils . lands management projects providing for ecological and economic justification for crop rotation and agricultural lands engineering shall not be subject to coordination . Detailed land management projects, which provide for the construction of facilities and structures, shall be approved by the customers of such projects . technical documents on land management regarding the division and assembly of land plots shall be coordinated by the customer . if the land plot is to be used for the needs of research and development of amber deposits, other minerals of national importance . technical documents on land management regarding the land inventory shall be approved by the territorial body of the central executive authority implementing state policies in the field of land relations . assignment of especially valuable lands, defined by clauses “a” and “b” of part one of Article 150 of this Code, to the lands of other categories by virtue of inventory materials shall be prohibited . approval of land management documents shall be carried out at the location of lands (land plots) by territorial bodies of central executive authorities formed in the raion, city of oblast, republican importance (Autonomous Republic of Crimea), Kyiv and sevastopol, or interregional territorial body, if its powers extend to several administrative-territorial units . the verkhovna rada, the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea, executive authorities, land management documents shall be coordinated by territorial body of central executive authorities formed in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblast . land management projects for the allocation of land plots shall be subject to obligatory coordination with the central executive authority implementing state policies in the field of land relations. land plots located in the exclusion zone or zone of unconditional (compulsory) resettlement of the territory affected by radioactive contamination as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, shall also be subject to approval . lands of historical and cultural purpose, monuments of cultural heritage of local significance, their protection zones, in historical areas of settlements and other lands are subject to coordination . the central executive authority implementing state policies in the field of forestry and water management . the developer shall submit for approval the original land management project for allocation of the land plot . the bodies specified in parts 1 to 3 of this article shall provide or send by registered mail their conclusions of coordination or the refusal to coordinate . if the approved project is subject to mandatory state examination of land management documents, it shall be submitted by the customer or developer . the bodies specified in parts 1–3 of this Article may refuse to coordinate a land management project for the allocation of land plot . oversight over land use and protection shall ensure compliance by state authorities, local governments, enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens with the land legislation of Ukraine . land monitoring system collects, processes, transmits, stores and analyses information on the condition of lands . main purposes of land monitoring are to forecast ecological and economic consequences of land degradation . land monitoring shall be carried out by the central executive authority implementing state policies in the field of land relations . cadastral surveys shall mean works performed to determine and restore the boundaries of land plots . economic evaluation of lands shall mean evaluation of land as natural resource and means of production in agriculture and forestry . monetary valuation of land shall be determined on a rent basis . Normative monetary valuation of land plots shall be used to determine the amount of land tax, losses of agricultural and forestry production, economic incentives for rational use and protection of land . land fee shall be subject to settlement under the law . compensation shall include a reduction in income of land owners and land users due to the temporary conservation of unproductive lands . loss of agricultural and forestry production shall include losses of agricultural lands, forest fund lands and shrubs, as well as losses caused by restrictions on land use and deterioration of land quality . losses incurred due to construction, placement and operation of oil and gas facilities, development of fields and subsoil use for experimental and industrial development of amber deposits, other minerals of national importance . citizens and legal entities shall be exempted from compensation for losses of agricultural and forestry production . land plots may be used for construction of schools, preschool facilities, state objects of health care, culture, fitness and sports, social service . internal construction by agricultural or forestry enterprises, organisations, institutions, as well as citizens, shall be carried out without compensation . legal entities shall bear civil, administrative or criminal responsibility for land law violations . illegally occupied land plots shall be returned to land owners or land users without compensation for expenses incurred during their illegal use . bringing land plots into a usable condition, including demolition of buildings, structures and constructions, shall be carried out at the expense of citizens or legal entities . this Code shall enter into force on 1 January 2002 . the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall prepare and submit for consideration to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine and the president of Ukraine . land plots shall be leased from state-owned and municipal lands without land auctions . if the relevant authorities decide to coordinate the object location or to issue a permission for the development of a land allocation project before 1 January, 2008 . the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Council of Ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea shall bring their regulatory acts in line with this Code . the information on land plots, the location of which is determined by land management projects, shall be registered according to technical land management documents . requests and applications for allocation of lands, not resolved at the time of entry into force of this Code shall be implemented by executive authorities and local governments . citizens who are owners of land shares (paiv) may allocate land plots in kind (on the ground) within a single area . citizens and legal entities may acquire the right of ownership to agricultural land with a total area of up to 100 hectares . it shall be prohibited to introduce the right to land share (pai) into the authorised capital of companies, but not earlier than 1 January 2020 . land plots allocated in kind (on the ground) to owners of land shares (paiv) for personal peasant farming . agreements (including power-of-attorneys) concluded during the period of prohibition of sale or other alienation are invalid from the moment of their conclusion (certificate) . citizens who are owners of paiv at their request may be allocated a land plot subject to the state acts on land ownership . certificates for the right to a land share (pai), received by citizens, shall be considered as legal documents . requirements of part 4 of Article 22 of this Code shall apply only up to 1 January 2015 . advance payments paid by purchasers of land plots shall be credited .