oil and gas industry of Ukraine shall define basic legal, economic and organisational principles . oil-and-gas site of subsoil shall mean a part of the earth's crust limited in area and depth, for which a special permit for the use of oil- and gas subsol is issued in accordance with the established procedure . this Law shall ensure energy security of Ukraine, development of competitive relations in the oil-gas industry . pilot oil production of the underground storage facility shall mean carrying out a set of works, including experimental gas injection and sampling . agreement on the conditions of oil and gas subsoil use shall mean an agreement between the central government body implementing state policy in the field of geological exploration . oil shall mean a mineral, which is a mixture of hydrocarbons and dissolved components that are in a liquid form under standard conditions (pressure 760 mm Hg and a temperature of 20 degrees C) and is marketable product . oil and gas production facilities shall mean facilities intended for geological exploration, including pilot development and production . a field shall mean one or more deposits that partially or completely coincide in plan (plan drawing) oil and gas field development shall mean the technological process of extracting oil, gas and associated components from a field . transit of oil gas and refined products by pipelines shall mean movement in accordance with the concluded agreements . this Law shall not apply to relations regulated by the Law of Ukraine "On production-sharing agreements" relations in the oil and gas industry has features related to the objective conditions for the functioning of the industry . enterprises, 50 per cent or more in the authorised capital of which is the share of the state and owns a controlling interest, shall sell crude oil and natural-gas condensate of equity production on a monthly basis . opening price at stock auctions for oil and natural-gas condensate shall be determined by virtue of the customs value of oil according to the central government body . reducing the price of oil or natural -gas at auctions below the opening price shall not be allowed . business entities, defined in part one of this Article, shall pay a fine to the state budget . if during the regular stock auction the volumes of crude oil and natural-gas condensate have not been sold in full or in part, they shall be put up for an additional stock auction held in the same calendar month . the payment for the shipped volumes shall be made by National Joint-Stock company "Naftogaz of Ukraine" within 30 days from the date of conclusion of the purchase and sale agreement . ensuring ecologically safe operation of oil and gas industry facilities . ensuring the development of competitive relations in the market of gas, oil and refined products . creating conditions for maintaining a stable financial state of the industry . monopolists in the oil and gas industry shall not suspend their activities or reduce its volume in order to create a shortage of oil or gas . local self-government authorities shall not have the right to interfere in the economic activities of entities engaged in the geological study of oil . and gas potential of subsoil, oil refining, conservation, transportation and sale of oil, gas and refined products . special permits for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil shall be issued by the central government body, implementing public policy in the field of geological study and rational use . issuance of special permits shall be carried out in accordance with the principles of: openness of the tender system when selecting the winner . after expiration of the special permit, the state property provided for use to the owner of this permit shall be returned to the state . special permits shall be issued for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil . extraction of unsuitable for domestic use mineralised groundwater for the needs of the oil . and gas industry . underground facilities not related to the extraction of minerals shall be carried out . a special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil shall be issued to auction winners, except in cases specified by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . owner of special permit shall not grant, sell or otherwise alienate the rights granted to him/her, including transferring them to the authorised capital of business entities created with his/her participation . extension of validity of permit, its re-issuance, amendments to it, in particular in the event of an increase in mineral reserves, shall not mean issuance of a special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil shall begin from the date of receipt unless otherwise provided . the user is obliged to start work on a certain site no later than 180 calendar days from the entry into force of the special permit . land plots for use for needs of the oil industry shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure established by the land legislation of Ukraine . land plots of all forms of ownership and categories shall be granted to owners of special permits for use of oil and gas potential subsoil . landowners and land users shall be compensated for damages and losses caused by the use of land . the maximum area of sites provided for geological study shall not exceed 500 square kilometres . the owner of a special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil is obliged to ensure the completeness of geological study, rational integrated use and protection of oil-and-gas-bearing subsurface . special permits for the creation and use of underground storage tanks shall be issued by virtue of feasibility study of expediency in the manner prescribed by this Law . granting special permits shall be carried out according to the procedure approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . oil and gas potential subsoil located within the territorial sea and the Exclusive (marine) Economic Zone of Ukraine . works shall be carried out in accordance with a special regime, established by owner of special permit upon approval of central government bodies . obtaining a permit for the use of the area shall mean the simultaneous acquisition of the right to use the offshore area within this area . a special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil shall not be granted if the requirements of this Law and the conditions of the tender are not met . permits issued in violation of the established procedure for their receipt shall be declared invalid in court . a special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil is suspended for 20 calendar days . the user is obliged to suspend the execution of targeted works in the area . revocation of the special permit is carried out in the case of refusal of the user . it is also possible to revoke a permit if the user violates environmental legislation . revocation of the special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil shall be carried out by the central government body . decision to revoke a special permit can be appealed in court . compensation of losses of the parties shall be provided by the parties in accordance with the agreement on the conditions of use . in the event of a dispute over damages it shall be resolved in court. the winner of the tender for a special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil shall conclude an agreement on the conditions of use . material terms of the agreement include the program of works to be performed by the owner of the special permit . the agreement can be supplemented by other conditions that do not contradict the current legislation . state control and supervision over compliance with the rules and regulations for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil shall be exercised by central government bodies . in case of violations, the relevant authorities can temporarily suspend the works provided for by a special permit . the central government body, implementing public policy in the field of industrial safety and state mining supervision . central government body, implementing public policy in the field of geological study and rational use of subsoil shall announce a tender for a special permit . materials for registration of such geological exploration works shall be provided by the user . geological information obtained (purchased) at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine is a state property and shall be used in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine. any legal entity or individual can request geological information from the State Geological Information Fund of Ukraine . information that is the property of the user of oil and gas potential subsoil shall be stored by the user or his/her successors in accordance with the law . oil and gas production from the field (deposit) during its pilot development planning shall be carried out in modes, volumes and terms in accordance with the project . to commission a field into commercial development, the user of oil . and gas potential subsoil shall have: a special . permit for oil production (commercial field development); a duly approved geological and economic assessment of the reserves of the field . oil, gas and refined products underground storage tanks, created in natural tanks, are objects of state ownership . oil and gas potential subsoil owners are obliged to conclude insurance agreements in the event of: causing environmental damage due to accidents or technical problems during the development . underground storage tanks for oil, gas and refined products shall be constructed and operated by virtue of special permits for construction and operation . main pipelines commissioning and decommissioning shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . there shall be production discipline, rules for providing operational information on gas supply, volume, modes of transportation and gas consumption . dispatch (operational and technological) management of the unified gas transmission system of Ukraine shall be performed by the operator . business entities of the oil and gas industry, whose facilities are connected to the system, shall be subject to unquestioning execution . regulations on the functioning of the system shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . oil and gas enterprises shall comply with the requirements of environmental legislation, be responsible for its violation and carry out technical, organisational measures aimed at reducing the damage effects . projects for conduction of geological exploration works on the lands used for nature protection, recreational and historical and cultural purposes shall be subject to mandatory environmental impact assessment . employees who provide production processes in the oil and gas industry shall undergo special training and certification in accordance with the requirements of the law . employees in the zone of influence of harmful and dangerous factors shall be provided with the benefits provided for by current legislation . if rules other than those provided for by this Law are established by international agreements of Ukraine, the rules of the international agreement shall apply . the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall submit to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals to bring the legislative acts of Ukraine in line with the Law of Ukraine "On Oil and Gas" president of uae to bring its decisions in conformity with this Law . to ensure revision and cancellation by ministries and other central government bodies of regulatory legal acts they adopted contrary to this law .