aims at creating a legal framework for protecting the rights and interests of clients of financial institutions, individual entrepreneurs who provide financial services . financial institutions shall include banks, credit unions, pawnshops, leasing companies, trust companies, insurance companies, contributory pension institutions, investment funds and companies . independent financial intermediaries providing financial guarantees services are not financial institutions . financial services markets include professional services in the markets of banking services, insurance services, investment services, securities transactions and other types of markets that ensure the circulation of financial assets . participants in the financial services market are entities that, pursuant to the law, have the right to provide financial services on the territory of Ukraine . a non-bank financial group is a group of legal entities under a common controller (other than a bank), comprising two or more financial institutions . ancillary services companies provide information technology services, holding or managing of property, data processing or any similar services necessary for the financial institution to carry out financial services activities . control is the ability to exercise decisive influence on the management and/or activities of a legal entity . core business of a non-bank financial group shall be calculated annually as of 1 January 1 in accordance with the procedure stipulated by this article . business reputation is a set of documented information about an entity, which makes it possible to draw a conclusion about the compliance of its economic and/or professional activities with the requirements of the law . auxiliary services are ancillary and intermediary services in the financial services markets . terms "collection company", "settlement of overdue debt" shall be used in this Law in the meanings given in the Law of Ukraine "On Consumer Lending". financial institutions in Ukraine shall operate in accordance with this law . relations arising in connection with functioning of financial markets and provision of financial services to customers shall be governed by the constitution of Ukraine . provisions of this law shall not apply to intergovernmental international organisations . financial services include trade in currency valuables, raising of financial assets . provision of financial services not included in list specified in part one of this Article shall be prohibited . activities of a telecommunication operator on public charitable fundraising from subscribers shall not be considered financial services . financial institutions may not raise funds from individuals with an obligation to repay them . only a lending institution shall have the right to provide financial loans at the expense of attracted funds . financial services shall be provided by business entities on a basis of an agreement . financial service agreements shall only be executed in writing: 1) in paper form; 2) in the form of an electronic document created in accordance with the requirements specified by the Law of Ukraine "On electronic documents and electronic documents circulation" the client shall have the right to require the business entity to provide a balance sheet or certificate of financial position, confirmed by an auditor . the public part of the agreement shall be made public and accessible for perusal by clients on the financial services provider's own website . the individual part shall be concluded with the client in writing (in a paper or electronic form) the burden of proving that the agreement (amendments to the agreement) has been sent to the client shall rest with the financial service provider . financial institutions shall not be allowed to unilaterally increase the interest rate or other payments stipulated by the lending agreement or debt repayment schedule, except as provided by law . the legal entity intending to provide financial services must apply to the relevant authority exercising state regulation of financial services markets . financial institutions may be established in any institutional and legal form, provided that the laws governing certain markets for financial services shall not contain special rules and restrictions . the minimum capital required for the incorporation of financial institutions and the general requirements for regulatory capital shall be determined by the laws of Ukraine on the regulation of certain financial services markets . legal or natural person must obtain written consent of the authority exercising state regulation of financial services markets . financial situation of the applicant shall be cumulative indicators reflecting its real and potential financial capabilities . if the applicant is the legal entity, this requirement applies to members of the executive body and supervisory board of such legal entity . the acquisition or significant holding increase of the applicant in the financial institution will threaten the interests of depositors and/or other creditors of such financial institution . the decision of the general meeting of shareholders, adopted in violation of the requirements specified in parts nine and ten of this Article, shall have no legal force. authorities exercising state regulation of financial services markets shall have the right to send inquiries to state bodies, local self-government bodies, legal entities and individuals . acquisition of significant holding in the financial institution by non-residents or its increase shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of this Article . advertising of financial services, provision of which is prohibited by law on the territory of Ukraine . list of features indicating that the way to present information on the provision of services hampers its visual perception shall be defined by the authority carrying out state regulation of the relevant financial services market . financial institution shall disclose to clients the specified by law information about the financial institution's business, posted at the premises where the services are delivered . prior to entering into a financial service agreement, the financial institution or other entity providing financial services shall be required to inform the client in a writing or electronic form . the client may exercise the right to withdraw from the financial services agreement, as well as other conditions for the use of such rights . the information provided to the client must provide correct understanding of the financial service essence without imposing its purchase . no payments, damages, or penalties may be imposed on the consumer for exercising the right of withdrawal from the agreement . financial institutions must disclose: financial and consolidated financial statements . financial institutions established in the form of joint stock companies shall additionally disclose information as issuers in accordance with the requirements of the legislation on securities . financial institutions must ensure the availability of information posted on their own websites . a financial institution's audit report must include certain information, not a trade secret . it must also include facts of assets alienation during the year in the amount established in the charter of the financial institution . the audit report should also include recommendations of authorities exercising state regulation of financial services markets . financial institutions shall be required to keep records of its operations and provide reports in accordance with the requirements of the law of Ukraine "On the Audit of Financial Statements and Auditing Activities" the supreme governance body or the supervisory board of the financial institution shall form a structural unit within it or determine a separate official to conduct internal audit (control) financial institutions shall have the right to voluntarily unite their activities . self-regulating organisations shall carry out regulatory activities within their competences . national securities and stock market commission shall exercise consolidated supervision for non-banking financial groups . a financial group's business is regarded as a core business if its assets constituted 50 or more percent of the aggregate arithmetic mean value of assets held . the body exercising the state regulation of financial services markets shall have the right to determine subgroups consisting of at least two financial institutions, and to supervise them on a sub-consolidated basis . financial group shall be obliged to determine the responsible person of the financial group . a group member with the highest value of assets in the last reporting quarter shall be considered responsible person . financial group members shall be required to ensure annual financial statements are audited annually . financial institutions shall carry out their activities in accordance with the requirements of the legislation on the protection of economic competition . applicants must provide information on the ultimate beneficial owners (controllers) of the applicants and on the chairperson and members of the supervisory and executive body . the presence of persons with an outstanding or unexpunged conviction in the prescribed manner shall be the ground for refusal to include the applicant in the relevant state register of financial institutions . the purpose of state regulation of financial services markets shall be: 1) conducting a uniform and effective state policy of regulation and supervision . antimonopoly committee of Ukraine and other state bodies shall exercise control over the activities of participants in the financial services markets . state regulation of financial services delivery shall be carried out in accordance with this Law and other laws of Ukraine . the National Bank of Ukraine and the National Securities and Stock Market Commission shall be obliged to cooperate in accordance with the provisions of this Law . the head of the authority exercising state regulation of financial services markets may participate in the work of another body exercising state regulatory . the National Bank of Ukraine and the national securities and stock market commission shall cooperate with the supervisory authorities of foreign countries in order to carry out consolidated supervision . national bank of ukraine shall: 1) develop and approve regulatory legal acts binding on central and local executive authorities, local self-government bodies, participants in financial services markets, their associations . the law establishes requirements for persons who intend to conduct activities for the provision of financial services . establish mandatory criteria and standards for capital adequacy and solvency, liquidity, profitability, asset quality and riskiness of operations . define the amount of fees for registration actions of the National Bank of Ukraine in relation to non-banking financial institutions . the National Bank of Ukraine, exercising supervision over activities in the markets of non-banking financial services markets, shall be guided by the principles of: (1) ensuring the protection of the rights of consumers of financial services; (2) monitoring the flow of capital to and from Ukraine through the markets for financial services . the national bank shall be able to apply enforcement actions and impose administrative penalties in case of violations . national bank of ukraine has introduced a new law on non-banking financial services . the law provides for the legality of regulatory legal acts and activities of the bank . it also provides for proportionality of regulatory requirements and supervisory actions . the National Bank of Ukraine shall supervise the activities in the markets of non-banking financial services in the form of remote supervision and inspections . the main directions of the supervision in the field of state regulation are the regular assessment of the general financial condition of the financial institution . the National Bank of Ukraine shall have the right to receive information from state bodies and other entities, including confidential information . scheduled inspections of the participant in the non-banking financial services market may be conducted no more than once a year . the national bank shall approve the criteria by which the degree of risk from the activities of participants in financial services markets is assessed . the National Bank of Ukraine shall inform the participant of the non-banking financial services market about the unscheduled inspection no later than the day it starts . the term for the scheduled inspection cannot exceed 30 working days, and for micro and small business entities – ten working days . if there are reasonable grounds, this period may be extended up to 15 working days and for small businesses – up to seven working days. the National Bank of Ukraine may engage external experts with appropriate qualifications for the inspection . materials provided for analysis or verification, as well as information and documents on the financial, property status of legal entities and individuals can be classified in accordance with the law as official information . national bank of ukraine shall cooperate with international organisations, state bodies and non-governmental organisations of foreign states . the National bank of Ukraine shall have the right to conclude in writing international treaties (agreements, memorandums, protocols, etc.) and documents that are not regulated by international law . the National Bank of Ukraine shall issue licences for the provision of financial services . an entity intending to carry out a certain type of activity shall apply for the licence . the licence granted cannot be transferred to third parties . the application for a licence must contain information about the identity of the applicant . if the applicant has branches, other separate divisions, their location shall be indicated in the application . the National Bank of Ukraine shall have the right to leave the application without consideration . the National Bank of Ukraine shall decide to issue the licence or refuse to issue it within a period of not more than 30 working days from the date of receipt of the application . if the application was submitted together with the application for inclusion of the relevant entitty in the State Register of Financial Institutions or the Register of entities that have the right to provide separate financial services . the decision on refusal to issue the licence may be appealed in court . the licence shall come into force from the day the National Bank of Ukraine makes an entry in the relevant register . activities related to the provision of financial services shall be conducted in the entire territory of Ukraine . repeated violation of licence conditions shall be considered the commission within two years from the date of the issuance by the National Bank of Ukraine of the order, decision to eliminate violations of the licence conditions . the list of criteria which availability shall be the ground for the conclusion of the national bank of ukraine on the conduct of the non-banking financial institution or entity . failure to conduct any financial service within a year from the day of obtaining the licence . non-banking financial institution or entity that is not the financial institution, but has the right to provide certain financial services, to conduct audit by the National Bank of Ukraine . audit may include refusal of authorised persons of the national bank of Ukraine to conduct the audit, failure to provide documents, information regarding the subject of the audit . the audit may also include inconsistency of the ownership structure, business reputation and sources of funds . 17) application of two or more times during the year of enforcement actions by the National Bank of Ukraine for violation of the requirements established by law for interaction with consumers in the settlement of overdue debts (requirements of ethical behaviour) national bank of ukraine has the right to apply other enforcement actions provided for in this part for non-performance or improper performance of the terms of the written agreement by the financial institution . if the violation and its consequences are eliminated by the violator on his own prior to the application of enforcement actions, the National Bank of Ukraine shall not apply enforcement actions . the decision of the National Bank of Ukraine on the application of enforcement actions to participants in the markets of non-banking financial services shall come into force on the day following the day when such decision is made . if the decision within a month from the date of entry into force was not implemented or was not appealed in court, this decision shall acquire the status of the executive document . failure to provide financial services in the amount of 300 to 600 tax-exempt minimums of the citizen income for every case . failure to assess the consumer's creditworthiness before concluding the financial service agreement . non-compliance with the requirements established by law for interaction with consumers . fines prescribed by Article 41 of this Law shall be imposed by the governor of the national bank of Ukraine and other authorised officials of the National Bank of Ukraine . authorised person who discovered the commission of offence specified in Article 41 shall draw up a report . the National Bank of Ukraine has the right to appoint a provisional administration of financial institution (except for a bank) in the event of systematic violations of the legal requirements of the national bank of ukraine by the financial institution . the functions of the provisional administrator shall be performed by persons appointed by the National bank of Ukraine . only persons who have the certificate of the authority exercising the state regulation of financial services markets shall be allowed to join the provisional administration . remuneration for the work of a provisional administrator (except for the employee of the National Bank of Ukraine) and specialists engaged by him/her shall be conducted at the expense of the financial institution to which he was appointed . the National Bank of Ukraine shall be obliged to ensure that there is no conflict of interest before appointing the provisional administrator . the appointed person shall take measures to eliminate the conflicts of interest and inform the national bank of Ukraine about it at the same time . the National Financial Services Markets Regulatory Commission shall introduce the State Register of Financial Institutions and make appropriate entries in it . other laws and regulatory legal acts of authorities exercising state regulation of financial services markets shall be applied . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine and the National Securities and Stock Market Commission shall prepare and submit for consideration to the verkhovna Rada of Ukraine .