this Law defines the legal content of citizenship of Ukraine, the grounds and procedure for its acquisition and termination . it also defines the powers of state authorities involved in resolving issues of citizenship, actions or omissions of state officials, their executives and officials . citizens of Ukraine are a legal relationship between an individual and Ukraine which is reflected in their mutual rights and obligations . continuous residence on the territory of Ukraine of a person, if his/her one-time trip abroad on private business did not exceed 90 days, and 180 days in total for a year . it is not deemed as a violation of the requirement for continuous residence . a document on termination of foreign citizenship (nationality) must be submitted within two years of acquiring citizenship of Ukraine . the legislation of Ukraine on citizenship is based on the following principles: 1) single citizenship - citizenship of the state of Ukraine, which excludes the possibility of the existence of citizenship of administrative-territorial units of Ukraine . if a citizen of Ukraine has acquired citizenship (nationality) of another state or states, then in legal relations with Ukraine he/she is recognised solely as a Ukrainian . citizens of Ukraine are: 1) all citizens of the former ussr who were permanently residing on the territory of Ukraine . 2) persons who at the time of entry into force of the Law of Ukraine "On citizenship of Ukraine" (13 November 1991) lived in Ukraine and were not citizens of other states, regardless of race, skin color, political, religious, and other beliefs . a person whose parents or one of the parents were citizens of Ukraine at the time of his/her birth should be deemed as a citizen of Ukraine . A person born outside of Ukraine to stateless persons permanently legally residing on the territory of Ukraine should also be considered a Ukraine citizen . a person born on the territory of Ukraine, one of whose parents was granted refugee status in Ukraine or asylum in Ukraine by birth, should be deemed a citizen of Ukraine . a newborn child found both of its parents are unknown (foundling) shall be regarded as a citizens of Ukraine from the moment of his/her birth . a person who himself/herself or at least one of whose parents, grandfather or grandmother, sibling (full or half), son or daughter, or grandchild was born or resided permanently until 24 august 1991 in the territory that became the territory of Ukraine . foreigners who are citizens (patrials) of several states shall submit an obligation to terminate the citizenship of all these states . a child who was born on the territory of Ukraine after 24 august 1991 and did not acquire citizenship of Ukraine by birth should be registered as a citizen of Ukraine . foreigners specified in parts first and third of this Article shall submit a document on this issued by the authorized body of the relevant state . submission of an obligation to terminate foreign citizenship shall not be required for foreigners, who are citizens of the states, which provide for automatic termination of their citizenship . foreigners being citizens (patrials) of multiple states shall submit an obligation to terminate these states' citizenship (nationality) foreigners who have been granted refugee status in Ukraine or asylum in Ukraine shall submit a declaration on the renunciation of a person who has received a temporary residence permit under part two of Article 4 of the Law of Ukraine "On the Legal Status of Foreigners and Stateless Persons" the period of lawful continuous residence in the territory of Ukraine established for foreigners and stateless persons performing military service in Armed Forces of Ukraine under the contract . this requirement shall not apply to the persons who have been granted refugee status in Ukraine or asylum in Ukraine . a permit for immigration to Ukraine shall not be required if the child’s legal representative is a person who has been granted refugee status in Ukraine or asylum in Ukraine . the provisions of part fifth of this Article shall not apply to foreigners and stateless persons specified in part twentieth of Article 4 of the Law of Ukraine “On the Legal Status of Foreigners and Stateless Persons” . a person, who has acquired the citizenship of Ukraine and submitted a declaration on renewal of foreign citizenship, shall be obliged to return his/her passport of a foreign state . in cases provided for by this Article, the date of acquirement of the citizenship of Ukraine is the day of publication of the relevant decree of the president of the ukraine . A foreigner, who is a citizen (patrial) of multiple states shall submit an obligation to terminate foreign citizenship . a person who has acquired the citizenship of Ukraine and submitted a declaration on renewal of foreign citizenship shall be obliged to return his/her passport of a foreign state . a child who is adopted by citizens of Ukraine or by spouses one of which is the citizen of Ukraine, the other is a stateless person, shall become a citizen of ukraine . a person of full age, who is stateless and resides permanently in the territory of Ukraine, shall become a citizen of Ukraine since the entry into force of the court's decision on his/her adoption . a foreigner or a stateless person, and guardianship or trusteeship of whom has been established, if such child does not acquire the citizenship of the guardian or trustee who is a . foreigner . a child, who is a foreigner or a stateless person and is raised in a family-type orphanage, adopting family, patronage fosterer family, shall become a Ukrainian citizen . a person recognized incapable by the court and as a citizen of Ukraine, guardianship of whom is established shall acquire the citizenship of Ukraine . recognition of paternity of a child, whose mother is a foreigner or stateless person . child shall acquire the citizenship of Ukraine regardless of place of birth . in case of establishment of the fact of maternity, child's father must be a citizen of Ukraine . person being stateless shall acquire citizenship of ukraine regardless of birth place . in cases provided for by parts first - fifth of this Article, the date of acquisition of the citizenship of Ukraine shall be the day of the child's (person's) birth . if a child together with his/her parents has left for permanent residence abroad and the parents withdraw the citizenship , the child may withdraw citizenship of ukraine . if one of a child's parents has left for permanent residence abroad . and the other parent is a foreigner or a stateless person, the child may withdraw the citizenship of Ukraine together with the parent withdrawing by his/her application . withdrawal from citizenship of . Ukraine of children aged 14 to 18 could take place with their consent only . withdrawal from the citizenship of Ukraine should not be allowed if the person applying for withdrawal was notified of suspicion in committing a criminal offense or is convicted in Ukraine by a final court judgment that came into force and should be executed . in cases specified by this Article, the date of termination of citizenship of ukraine shall be the date issue of a relevant decree by the President of Ukraine . Article 20. Legal Identity of a citizen of Ukraine who has submitted an application for withdrawal from the citizenship of Ukraine, or in respect of whom the loss of citizenship is being formalized . Article 21. Revocation of Decisions to formalize acquisition of the citizenship of Ukraine due to fraud, or deliberate submission of false information or false documents . Section IV POWERS OF STATE AUTHORITIES INVOLVED IN MAKING DECISIONS ON CITIZENSHIP the central executive authority implementing state policy on citizenship shall inform on a one time in a half-year basis the Presidential Commission on Citizenship of implementation of decisions of the president of Ukraine on citizenship . the ministry of foreign affairs of Ukraine, diplomatic missions and consulates of Ukraine shall exercise the following powers: a) receive applications, along with the necessary documents, in regard to admission to the citizenship of Ukraine . president of ukraine has the right to determine the citizenship of Ukraine according to Article 3 of this Law . the presidential commission on citizenship has the power to formalize the acquisition of citizenship . it can also revoke its adopted decisions in cases provided for by Article 21 of this law . Section V APPEALS AGAINST DECISIONS ON CITIZENSHIP ISSUES, ACTIONS OR INACTION OF STATE AUTHORITIES, OFFICIALS, AND OFFICERS Decisions on citizenship issues may be appealed before the court according to procedure established by law . Section VI FINAL PROVISIONS 1. This Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication . Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall: prepare and submit for consideration to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals on bringing the laws of Ukraine in line with this Law . the President of Ukraine will be recommended to bring his acts into conformity with this law .