dangerous cargo – substances, materials, products, waste of industrial and other activities that can cause an explosion, fire, damage to technical means, devices, structures and other objects during transportation . competent authority for dangerous cargo transportation – a body that is recognised as such following the established procedure . consignor – legal entity (resident and non-resident) or an individual (citizen of Ukraine, foreigner, stateless person) specified in the transportation documents . dangerous cargo transportation shall consist of this Law, other laws of Ukraine, international agreements ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . this Law shall not apply to the transportation of dangerous cargos within the areas of enterprises, institutions and organisations where these cargos are produced, used or disposed of . dangerous cargo storage areas – specially equipped places, sites, warehouses and structures where dangerous cargo received before/after transportation are stored. determining the main principles and directions of state policy in the field of dangerous cargo transportation . establishing rights, duties and responsibilities of the dangerous cargo transport parties . consignor shall be obliged to take measures for physical protection, security and safety of dangerous goods prior to their transfer to the carrier . dangerous cargo carrier shall have the right to: timely receive dangerous cargo along with relevant documents containing complete information about the cargo . carrier shall be obliged to: ensure transportation of dangerous cargos in the prescribed manner by certain vehicles . in case of road transportation, ensure that drivers receive certificates of a standard form permitting them to transport dangerous cargo after training and passing the relevant examinations . dangerous cargo consignee shall have right to receive dangerous cargo along with relevant documents . authorities performing government control in the field of dangerous cargo transportation shall be the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimea . ad hoc authorities for dangerous cargo transportation are the central executive authorities in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of transport . powers of central executive authority in charge include development and approval of regulatory acts, as well as approval of standards and regulations of environmental and radiation safety . the competence of the council of ministers of the autonomous republic of crimia shall include: statutory regulation of activity of transport, sanitary?epidemiological and medical services . powers of the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state policy in the field of transport in relation to dangerous cargo transportation shall include control and supervision for organising safe transportation of dangerous cargos . competence of other central executive authorities shall include participation in specifying the conditions for safe transportation . in case of road transportation, these standards and regulations shall be agreed with the National Police authorities. the competence of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the field of road transportation of dangerous cargos shall include: development and approval, in coordination with the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy on transport . national police competence includes: control over traffic safety during road transportation, compliance with legislation in this area . physical protection and escort of dangerous cargos shall be carried out in the manner prescribed by regulatory acts, depending on their classification and type of transport by which they are transported . liability of parties transporting dangerous cargo shall be subject to compulsory insurance . health and life of employees involved in dangerous cargo transportation shall be covered by compulsory insurance in due course . Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall prepare and submit to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals on amendments to the legislative acts due to the adoption of this Law . bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law; ensure adoption of the regulatory acts provided for in this law .