this Law shall set out the principles for the legal protection of geographical indications in Ukraine . it regulates relations arising in connection with registration, use and protection thereof . special aspects of preparation for registration for agricultural products, food products, wines, flavoured wine products, alcoholic beverages . national intellectual property office (hereinafter NIPO) is part of the state system of the legal protection of intellectual property, defined at the national level by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . a geographical indication is a name that identifies the product originating from a particular geographical place and having special qualities or properties . Appeals Commission is NIPO's collegiate body, whose main purpose is to consider complaints of candidates for representatives in intellectual property cases (patent attorneys) main purpose of this body is to examine complaints against decisions of the Personnel Review Commission . powers of central executive authority include: ensuring statutory regulation in the field of protection of rights to geographical indications . NIPO is a legal entity of public law (state organisation) formed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . powers delegated to NIPO include: receipt of applications, expert appraisal, decision-making on them . NIPO has the right to receive from ministries, other central and local executive bodies, and local self-government bodies free of charge . the head of NIPO is appointed and dismissed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . to ensure the implementation of delegated powers by NIPO the head is authorised to sign law-making documents . the Supervisory Board may consist of two representatives of the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . members of the supervisory board perform their duties on a pro bono basis . the powers of a member of the Supervisory Board may be terminated prematurely . the body that delegated the member is obliged to delegate a new representative to the supervisory board . funding of NIPO activities shall be provided from the collection of fees for actions related to the protection of intellectual property rights . NIPO procures goods, works and services in the manner and using the procedures established by the Law of Ukraine "On Public Procurement" a qualified electronic signature may be used on documents accepted or approved by NIPO in accordance with this Law . personnel review commission shall consist of NIPO’s employees, central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . Appeals commission shall consider complaints of candidates for representatives in intellectual property cases (patent attorneys) against decisions of Personnel review commission . foreigners and stateless persons shall have the same rights and obligations as persons of Ukraine provided by this Law . this Law provides legal protection to geographical indications on the basis of their registration . scope of legal protection of a geographical indication shall be determined by the product’s characteristics . homonymous geographical indications may be registered if there is a difference during the use between this indication and a previously registered geographical indication . no legal protection shall be provided to a geographical indication which: a) does not meet the requirements set forth by Article 7 of this Law; c) is e) includes or reproduces a name of plant variety or animal breed, which can mislead consumers regarding the product’s actual origin . an association of persons who produce goods in the specified geographical location have a right to state registration of a geographical indication . one individual or legal entity can register an indication if they are the only manufacturer which manufactures the product in this geographical place . the geographical territory where the product is manufactured has characteristics that are significantly different from the adjacent territories . an application shall be submitted to NIPO by a person or association of persons who have the right to registration of a geographical indication . the application shall relate to one indication of goods origin only . an application may be submitted via an intellectual property agent or another agent . foreign persons and stateless persons shall submit documents confirming the legal protection of the declared geographical indication in the relevant foreign state . documents mentioned in this part may be submitted in a foreign language, and their translation into Ukrainian shall be received by NIPO no later than two months from the date of application . the applicant shall have the right to request copies of materials presented against the application . the applicant has a right to correct errors and change their name and address . NIPO may require the applicant to provide additional materials if it is impossible to conduct an examination without them or if there are reasonable doubts as to the accuracy of any information or elements contained in the application materials . a fee is levied for the submission of reasoned objection . the applicant has a right to refute the objection and leave the application unchanged, amend, or withdraw the application . within two months from the date of receipt of the objection, NIPO shall invite the objector and the applicant for appropriate consultations . if all information and documents for an application are available, the applicant shall be sent a notice of the established date of application . in the event of violation of the requirements of part 8, Article 10 of this Law, the application is considered withdrawn, and the applicant is notified thereof . a filed objection shall be considered within the reasons stated therein and taking in account the applicant's response if provided within the established time limit . an objection to an application may be granted only if it: proves the inconsistency of the declared geographical indication with the conditions for granting legal protection . a copy of the NIPO's decision adopted on the basis of such conclusion shall be sent to the objector . the applicant has the right to withdraw the application at any time before the date of registration of the geographical indication of the goods origin . an applicant may appeal to the court or to the Appellate Chamber against the NIPO's decision or copies of materials requested under part 2, Article 11 of this Law . an objection against a decision of the NIPO on an application is examined within 2 months from the date of receiving of the objection . the period of consideration of an objection is extended on the initiative of the applicant, but for not more than 2 months if a relevant request is submitted . if the document on payment of the fee for registration of a geographical indication was not obtained by NIPO within three months after the applicant receives decision approving registration of the geographical indication, the application shall be considered withdrawn . the term of receipt of the document confirming payment of state fee for register and payment of fee for publication on the registration shall be extended, but for not more than 6 months . changes of the name and address, correspondence address and the representative’s name may be recorded into the Register on the initiative of a person mentioned in the Register . these changes may relate to product manufacturing methods or revision of boundaries of the geographical place mentioned in clause c), part 2, Article 9-1 of this Law . a fee shall be paid for submitting an application for entering information on a person entitled to use a registered geographical indication into the Register . if the conditions provided for in Article 9 of this Law are met, the application shall be granted . rights deriving from the registration of a geographical indication shall take effect from the date of registration . use of a registered geographical indication shall be considered: a) its application to the product or to the label; b) its use in the advertisement; c) records on letterheads, invoices and other documents accompanying the goods; d) other rights defined by the legislation on legal protection of geographical indications . registered homonymous geographical indications shall be used in accordance with the practical conditions of use jointly defined by the interested producers . if the registered geographical indication is contained in the application for the issuance of a certificate of Ukraine for a trademark (label for goods and services) this shall be grounds for refusal to provide legal protection to the trademark or invalidation of the relevant certificate . use of an unregistered geographical indication shall be permitted only if the name of the country of origin is clearly and distinctly indicated on the label . the abbreviation “AOG” enclosed in an oval shall be used for the warning marking of the geographical indication . specially authorised bodies shall have the right to carry out control over presence of special qualities and other characteristics in the goods . tracking of the use of registered geographical indications on goods introduced into civil commerce to prevent cases provided for by part 4, Article 17 of this Law . legal protection of a geographical indication shall be declared invalid on the grounds of invalidation of registration of such indication . infringement of rights arising from the registration of a geographical indication entails liability . court jurisdiction covers all legal relations arising in connection with the application of this Law . fees provided for by this Law shall be paid to the current accounts of NIPO . Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall submit proposals on amendments to the laws of Ukraine implied by this Law to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . Cabinet shall determine and publish the list of specially authorised bodies obliged to determine and to control special properties and other characteristics of goods .