the law defines the legal and organisational framework for carrying out the architectural activity . it is aimed at shaping a favourable living environment, achieving aesthetic expressiveness, economic viability and reliability of buildings, structures and their complexes . subjects of architectural activity are architects, other persons that take part in the preparation and development of town planning documentation . architect is a specialist who, following the results of certification, received such a certificate, gives them the authority to conduct personal activity in the field of architecture . state ensures conditions for architectural activities by: supporting research activities, assistance in training and retraining of personnel . architect is responsible for the quality of performed works and their volumes during the construction or modification of the architectural work . ensuring participation of Ukraine in international organisations and events on architecture, town planning and protection of listed buildings . regulating aspects of architectural activity within the exclusion zone and the zone of the unconditional (compulsory) evacuation of the territory exposed to radioactive contamination due to the Chornobyl disaster are determined by law . architectural and town planning competitions are held to identify the best architectural and space-planning, engineering and technical and economic design proposals . designs of architectural works, the implementation of which has a significant impact on the development and shaping of community property development, are developed exclusively on a competitive basis . architectural work design is certified by the signature and sealed with the personal seal of the chief project architect and/or chief project engineer who has a qualification certificate . approval of designs of architectural works constructed involving budget funds, funds of state and municipal enterprises, institutions and organisations . amendments to the approved design are made only with the consent of the author of the design . state architectural and construction control and supervision is carried out in the manner prescribed by law . technical supervision is provided by the customer and carried out by persons who have a qualification certificate . authorised town planning and architectural authorities include the central executive authority in charge of shaping state policy in the field of architecture . executive authority of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on architecture, structural subdivisions of the oblast, raion, Kyiv and Sevastopol city state administrations on architecture . local governments carry out their activities in the field of town planning and architecture under the Law of Ukraine "On Local Self-Government in Ukraine" self-regulatory organisations in the field of architectural activity can be created and operate in Ukraine . contractors of certain types of works related to the creation of architectural works undergo professional certification . the list of such works and procedure for professional certification is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. powers to conduct professional certification may be delegated to self-regulatory organisations in the field of architectural activities . citizens who have obtained higher education at the educational and qualification levels of bachelor, specialist, master are admitted to professional certification . the reason for refusal to issue a qualification certificate is failure to confirm professional specialisation, grade of qualification and knowledge . citizens who have passed the professional certification gain the right to perform the relevant types of work from the date the record of the qualification certificate was made . decision on admission/refusal of admission to professional certification is issued in paper form . citizens who have received a qualification certificate have a personal seal and are responsible for improper performance of works (provision of services) persons who have certificates in the field of professional certification with personnel certification authorities shall be equated to contractors who have passed professional certification . the procedure for paying the fee for professional certification and its amount are approved by the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine . foreigners and stateless persons who legally stay in Ukraine enjoy the same rights and bear the same responsibilities as citizens of Ukraine when carrying out architectural activity . they may perform works specified in Article 19 hereof and participate in the development of town-planning documentation, design architectural works, develop working documentation for construction . architect – project developer must approve the project if it does not contradict the legislation, town planning conditions and restrictions of the land plot development . rights of contractors Contractors have the right to choose at their discretion the technology, methods and way of development and implementation of the architectural work . citizens and non-governmental organisations that are not directly involved in the creation of architectural works have a right to receive from authorities information on preparation and decision-making . customers and contractors must entrust certain types of work (services) to persons who have the appropriate qualification certificate or certificate in the field of professional certification . owners and users of architectural works shall keep the buildings and structures, as well as the land plots assigned to them, in proper condition . objects of copyright in the field of architecture are works of architecture, town-planning and garden art, as well as plans, drawings, plastic works, illustrations, maps and sketches related to architecture . property rights to an architectural work as a copyright object created in relation to the performance of a labour agreement belong to the creator of this work and to the legal entity or the individual they work for . author of design of architectural, town-planning, garden artwork has the exclusive right to participate in its further implementation . author of architectural work as an object of copyright has the right to receive a royalty for its creation and use in the manner prescribed by law . personal non-property rights to the architectural work belong to its author (co-authors) this Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication . unless the laws of Ukraine and other regulatory acts are brought in line with this Law, they shall be applied so far as they do not contradict this Law . the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall submit to the verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals on bringing the laws in line .