this Law establishes the procedure for tariff and non-tariff regulation of import of agricultural raw materials and products of its processing . full rates of import duty on first and second group product under Ukrainian Classification of Goods of Foreign Economic Activity (UKT ZED) (except for excisable ones) shall be established at a double rate of preferential import duty . seasonal duties shall be an exception to preferential regimes, including free trade agreements, customs unions, production cooperation and other similar international treaties . the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall establish the validity period of seasonal duties on agricultural products and publish its decisions 45 days before their introduction . the quota volume for a particular type (form, grade) of livestock products cannot exceed 10 per cent of the production volume of similar products in Ukraine in the year before the current one . a specific volume within the specified 10% shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine based on the volume of domestic production . quotas on the import of livestock products shall be sold at auctions held by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine within 60 calendar days . a state duty in the amount established by the legislation shall be charged for the auction from buyers . the registration fee shall be set at a level sufficient to cover the costs of the ministry . the security deposit shall be refunded to participants who did not win the auction . agricultural products imported (transmitted) into the customs territory of Ukraine shall be subject to radiological and state control . Article 4 as amended by Laws No. 644/97-VR of 19 November 1997, No. 32/98- VR of 16 January 1998, articles 2681-III of 13 September 2001, no. 2775-III . it is prohibited to impose restrictions on the free movement of domestic agricultural products throughout the territory of Ukraine . officials of the specified authorities shall be liable for issuing decisions contradicting the provisions of this Article . quotas on import of livestock products shall be introduced from the date of enactment of this Law . individuals shall temporarily be allowed to receive international postal items of foodstuff (except for excisable ones) without a certificate of compliance . import duty shall be established temporarily until 1 September 2000 at zero rates on corn grain (only for industrial processing at the food manufacturing plants) Article 7 has been supplemented with clause 10 under Law No. 198/98-VR of 5 March 1998 .