the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine adopts this Constitution as the Fundamental Law of Ukraine . it is based on the centuries-old history of Ukrainian state-building and on the right to self-determination realised by the Ukrainian nation, all the Ukrainian people . Ukraine shall be a sovereign and independent, democratic, social, law-based state . local self-government shall be recognised and guaranteed in Ukraine . the state language of Ukraine shall be the Ukrainian language . land, subsoil, atmosphere, water and other natural resources within the territory of Ukraine, natural resources of the exclusive (maritime) economic zone shall be objects of property rights of the Ukrainian people . the land shall be the main national asset and shall be under the special protection of the State . the establishment and operation of any armed formations not envisaged by law shall be prohibited in the territory of Ukraine . the legal order in Ukraine shall be based on the principles according to which no one may be forced to do what is not stipulated by law . the State symbols of Ukraine shall include the State Flag of Ukraine, the State Emblem of Ukraine and the State Anthem of Ukraine . human rights and freedoms affirmed by this Constitution shall not be exhaustive . every person shall have the right to free development of his/her personality . there shall be no privileges or restrictions based on race, skin colour, political, religious, and other beliefs, sex, ethnic and social origin, property status, place of residence, linguistic or other characteristics . a citizen of Ukraine shall not be deprived of citizenship and of right to change citizenship . foreigners and stateless persons staying in Ukraine on legal grounds may be granted asylum . no one shall be arrested or held in custody except under a substantiated court decision . bodies authorised by law may hold a person in custody as a temporary preventive measure . everyone shall be guaranteed the inviolability of his/her dwelling place . every citizen shall have the right to have access to the information possessed by government authorities . every person legally staying in the territory of Ukraine shall be guaranteed freedom of movement, free choice of place of residence . the exercise of such rights may be restricted by law in the interests of national security, territorial integrity, or public order . no one shall be exempt from his/her duties to the State or refuse to abide by laws on religious grounds . citizens shall have the right to take part in trade unions with the purpose of protecting their labour and socio-economical rights . establishment and activity of political parties and public associations shall be prohibited if their programme goals or actions are aimed at the liquidation of the independence of Ukraine . the creation and activity of organisational structures of political parties shall not be permitted . citizens shall have the right to participate in the administration of state affairs . the expropriation of private property objects may be applied only under conditions of social necessity . the use of property shall not prejudice the rights, freedoms, and dignity of citizens . everyone shall have the right to entrepreneurial activity that is not prohibited by law . the State shall ensure the protection of competition in entrepreneurial activity . the maximum duration of working hours, the minimum duration of rest and paid annual vacation, days off and holidays, as well as other conditions for exercising this right, shall be determined by law . citizens shall have the right to financial security in cases of complete, partial, or temporary disability, unemployment due to circumstances beyond their control, old age . the State shall create conditions enabling every citizen to build, purchase, or rent housing . marriage shall be based on free consent between a woman and a man . children shall be equal in their rights regardless of their origin . citizens belonging to national minorities shall be guaranteed the right to education in their native language . cultural heritage shall be protected by law . the State shall ensure the preservation of historical monuments and other objects of cultural value . everyone shall have the right to know his/her rights and duties . no one shall bear responsibility for acts that were not deemed by law to be an offence . no person may be brought to legal liability of the same type for the same offence twice . an accusation shall not be based on illegally obtained evidence . a convicted person shall enjoy all human and civil rights except for the restrictions determined by law and established by a court verdict . everyone shall be obliged to pay taxes and duties in the manner and to the extent established by law . all citizens shall annually file declarations to the tax inspections at their place of residence . the sole legislative authority in Ukraine shall be the parliament – the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . MPs of Ukraine shall exercise their powers on a permanent basis . they shall not have another representative mandate or be involved in the civil service or hold another office of profit or undertake other paid or entrepreneurial activity . a citizen who has a criminal record of committing an intentional crime shall not be elected to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . MPs of Ukraine shall take the following oath before the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine: "i swear allegiance to Ukraine" MPs shall not be legally liable for the results of voting or for statements made in the parliament and in its bodies except for the liability for an insult or defamation . the powers of an MP shall be subject to early termination in the event of: 1) his/her resignation through a personal statement; 2) a guilty verdict against him/her entering into legal force;  the powers of an MP of Ukraine shall be terminated in case of early termination of authority of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . a decision about an MP’s powers in cases stipulated in clauses 1 and 4, part 2 of this Article shall be adopted by the verkhova rada . the first meeting of the newly elected Verkhovarada of ukraine shall be opened by the eldest parliamentarian . Extraordinary sessions of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall be convened, mentioning the agenda, by the Chairman . a coalition of deputy factions comprising a majority of the constitutional composition of the MPs shall be formed . the deputy faction shall have the rights of a coalition of deputy factions in the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine envisaged by this Constitution . a closed meeting shall be held subject to a decision of the majority of the constitutional composition . the vr shall have powers of introducing amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, designating an All-Ukrainian referendum on issues determined by Article 73 . removing the President of Ukraine from office in accordance with the special procedure (impeachment) established by Article 111 of this Constitution . considering and adopting the decision in regard to the approval of the Programme of Activity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . confirming decisions on granting loans and economic aid by Ukraine to foreign states and international organisations . hearing his or her annual reports on the situation of the observance and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine; . terminating the authority of the members of the defining the functions of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Security Service of Ukraine . granting consent for the appointment to office by the president of Ukraine of the Prosecutor General . designating special elections to the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea . the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine exercises other powers ascribed to its competence in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine . an MP of Ukraine shall have the right to make inquiries to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, heads of other government authorities and local government . the issue of responsibility of the Cabinet may not be considered more than once during the same regular session . the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall elect from among its members the chairman, the first deputy chairman and the Deputy chairman, and shall recall them from their offices . the chairman shall exercise the powers stipulated by this Constitution in the manner established by the Rules of Procedure . within the limits of its powers, it may establish temporary ad hoc commissions to prepare and preliminary consideration of issues . the powers of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall be terminated on the day of the opening of the first meeting of a new convocation . the President of Ukraine has the right to an early termination of powers in the following cases . the following matters shall be established exclusively by laws of Ukraine: 1) the State Budget of Ukraine and the budgetary system of Ukraine; 2) the system of taxation, taxes and duties; 3) the procedure for the formation and settlement of state domestic and foreign debt; and 4) the procedures for conducting elections and referendums . amnesty shall be declared by the law of Ukraine . the right of legislative initiative in the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall be vested in the president . a law shall enter into force in ten days after the date of its official promulgation . the budgetary system of Ukraine shall be based on the principles of fair and impartial distribution of social wealth among citizens and territorial communities . the State shall strive for a balanced budget of Ukraine . regular reports on revenues and expenditures of the State Budget of Ukraine are made public . the President of Ukraine shall be the guarantor of the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, human and citizens' rights and freedoms . a citizen of Ukraine having attained the age of thirty-five, having the right to vote, residing in Ukraine for the past ten years prior to the day of elections may be elected as the president . the newly elected president shall assume office within thirty days after the official announcement of the election results . the President of Ukraine elected by special elections shall take the oath within five days after the official announcement of the election results . he/she shall ensure the independence, national security, and legal succession of the State . the title of the president shall be reserved for the president for life unless the president has been removed from the office under the procedure of impeachment . appoint and dismiss the Prosecutor General of Ukraine subject to an approval by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . revoke acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the ground of their non-compliance with this Constitution and simultaneously appeal to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for verification of the constitutionality of such acts . the President of Ukraine shall not transfer his or her powers to other persons or bodies . the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine is the co-ordinating body to the president of Ukraine on issues of national security and defence . the President of Ukraine shall exercise his/her powers until the assumption of office by the newly elected president of Ukraine . the president may be removed from office under the procedure of impeachment if he/she commits treason or other crime . the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall, by at least two-thirds of its constitutional composition, adopt a decision to bring charges against the president of Ukraine . the decision on the removal of the President of Ukraine from office under the procedure of impeachment shall be adopted by the ukrainian parliament . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall be comprised of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the First vice-prime minister, Vice-Prime Ministers and Ministers . the prime minister shall manage the work of the cabinet and direct such work at the implementation of the programme of activity . in the event of non-confidence in the cabinet, the entire cabinet shall resign . Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall ensure state sovereignty and economic independence . it shall also ensure the implementation of the Constitution, laws of Ukraine, and acts of the president . Cabinet of ministers shall issue binding directives and resolutions . acts of cabinet shall be signed by the prime minister . the executive power in oblasts, raions, and in the cities of Kyiv and sevastopol shall be exercised by local state administrations . local state administrators shall be accountable to, and under the control of, councils in the part of the powers delegated to them by the respective raion council . a local state administrator shall ensure: 1) the execution of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, acts of the President of Ukraine . members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have no right to combine office with other work . delegation of the functions of courts or appropriation by other bodies or officials shall be prohibited . the judicial system in Ukraine shall be based on the principles of territoriality and specialisation . a judge may not be detained or kept under the custody or arrested without the consent of the high council of justice before a sentence is passed by the court . he/she may be held liable for a court decision made by him/her, except for the commission of a crime or a disciplinary misdemeanour . the State shall ensure the personal security of judges and their families . a citizen of Ukraine who has attained no less than thirty and no more than sixty-five years of age may be appointed to the office of judge . additional requirements for judges of specialised courts in terms of education and the length of service may be established by law . judges shall be independent and abide only by law when administering justice . the amount of remuneration of judges shall be established by the law on judiciary . a judicial self-government system shall operate to protect the professional interests of judges . the president of the Supreme Court shall be an ex officio member of the high council . members of the High Council of Justice may not belong to political parties or trade unions . the bar shall exist to provide professional legal aid . only the advocate shall represent another person in court and defend him/her against criminal charges . law may determine exceptions in relation to representation in court in labour disputes . territorial structure of Ukraine shall be based on unity and integrity of the state territory . the Autonomous Republic of Crimea shall be an integral constituent part of Ukraine . the constitution of the autonomous republic of crimea shall be adopted by the verkhovna rada . the council of ministers shall be the government of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. the head of the council shall be appointed or dismissed by the president of Ukraine. the powers and procedure for the formation and operation of the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea shall be determined by the Constitution of Ukraine and laws of Ukraine . the competence of the autonomous republic of crimea shall include: organising local referendums; managing property that belongs to it; establishing zones for the sanitary protection of resorts . local self-government shall be the right of a territorial community to independently resolve local issues . village, settlement and city councils may permit, upon the initiative of residents, the establishment of house, street, block, and other bodies of self-organisation of population . the issue of organisation of the administration of districts shall fall within the competence of oblast and raion councils . territorial communities shall elect respectively the head of the village, settlement, or city . the material and financial basis for local self-government shall be communal property . territorial communities of villages, settlements, cities, districts may combine objects of communal property and budget funds . territorial communities of a village, settlement, and city shall manage communal property . certain powers of executive authorities may be assigned by law to local government . the rights of local self-government shall be protected by judicial procedure . a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine shall assume his/her powers from the day he/she takes an oath at a special plenary meeting of the Court . the President of Ukraine, the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine and the Congress of judges of Ukraine each shall appoint six judges to the constitutional court of Ukraine . the independence and immunity of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine shall be guaranteed . a judge may not be held liable for voting in respect of decisions adopted or opinions provided by the Court, except in case of committing a crime or a disciplinary misdemeanour . the grounds for dismissal shall include: inability to exercise his/her powers for health reasons; violation by him/her of incompatibility requirements . the Constitutional Court of Ukraine shall decide on compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine (constitutionality) of laws of Ukraine upon a constitutional complaint of a person who considers that the law of Ukraine applied in the final court judgment in his/her case contradicts the constitution of Ukraine . decisions and opinions of the constitutional court shall be binding, final and not subject to appeal . laws and other acts shall be deemed unconstitutional, whether in whole or in part . a draft law on introducing amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine may be submitted to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine or by at least one-third of the constitutional composition of the MPs . a draft law on introducing amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine shall be submitted to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine or by at least two-thirds of the constitutional composition . amendments shall not be adopted if they provide for the abolition or restriction of human and citizens' rights and freedoms . regular elections to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall be held in march 1998 . regular elections of the President of Ukraine will be held on the last Sunday of October 1999 . Upon the effective date of this Constitution, heads of local state administrations shall acquire the status of heads of these councils . district councils and their heads shall exercise their powers in accordance with the law . the prosecutor's office shall continue to perform the function of pre-trial investigation . judges of all courts in Ukraine elected or appointed before the effective date of this Constitution . regular elections to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall be held on the last Sunday of October 2012 . regular elections of the president of Ukraine after the restoration of the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine shall be held on the last Sunday of march 2015 . the powers of judges appointed for a five-year term shall terminate upon the expiry of the term for which they were appointed . judges elected as judges for an unlimited term shall continue to exercise their powers until their dismissal or termination of their powers . judges of certain courts formed before the effective date of the law shall have the right to submit a statement of resignation or apply for the competition for another judicial position in the manner determined by law . judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine shall continue to exercise their powers until the termination of their powers or their dismissal . the representation solely by prosecutors or lawyers in the Supreme Court and courts of cassation shall be performed since 1 January 2017 . the Constitution of Ukraine was adopted at the fifth session of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on 28 June 1996 .