pipeline transport system of Ukraine consists of: main pipeline transport; industrial pipeline transport . pipeline transport business entities located in Ukraine and owned by other states are regulated by this Law to the extent that they do not contradict to international agreements . the purpose of the legislation on pipeline transport is to regulate relations at all stages of development and functioning (design, construction, operation, overhaul, reconstruction etc.) special provisions of implementation of the Law of Ukraine “On Enterprises in Ukraine” with regards to the pipeline transport enterprises are defined by this Law and also by Acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . pipeline transport has an important economic and defense significance and is the property of the state of Ukraine . main pipeline transport infrastructure, built at the cost of municipal enterprises or private business entities, belong to such municipal enterprises . reorganisation of state enterprises, subsidiaries of National Joint-Stock Company "Naftogaz of Ukraine" is implemented by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine solely with the purpose of and in order to fulfill obligations . privatization of state-owned enterprises, subsidiaries of the National Joint-Stock Company "Naftogaz of Ukraine" is prohibited . the result of such cases is a transfer of fixed assets, shares and parts in the statutory capital to a solely budget institution, state enterprise or a joint-stock company with a 100 percent of shares owned by the state of Ukraine. part six of this article does not apply to the transfer of property that is in state ownership . mentioned transfer is performed exclusively for the purpose and with an aim to fulfill obligations of the state of Ukraine . to perform the functions of an underground gas storage operator, only underground storage facilities can be transferred . enterprises that carry out activities of transportation by main pipelines and of storage in underground gas storage facilities can not be involved in a bankruptcy procedure . ownership changes to the industrial pipeline transport are executed in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine . pipeline transport lands include land plots on which are built ground surface and above ground pipelines and their structures . land within protected areas is not withdrawn from general purpose use, but is used with restrictions (encumbrances) in accordance with the law or contract . pipeline transport enterprises, institutions and organisations are defined by this Law and other acts of legislation of Ukraine . pipeline transport enterprises, institutions and organisations accept, store, transship and transport by pipelines . foreign economic activity is regulated by acts of the legislation of Ukraine . list of such bodies is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. pipeline transport enterprises must ensure supply to customers of hydrocarbons, chemical products, water and other products and substances according to contracts . establishment of specialised units for repair and maintenance works in case of a pipeline accident or catastrophe . monitoring pipeline supplies of toxic chemical products and liquefied hydrocarbon gases and wide light hydrocarbon fraction . collection, processing, saving and analysis of information about safety of pipeline transportation process is conducted by relevant state executive authorities . pipeline transport enterprises develop and approve possible accident recovery plans, that are revised annually in case of replacement of a technological equipment . enterprises cooperate with specialized units of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine during performance of works in a state of emergency . security (including fire brigades) of most important pipeline transport infrastructure is also provided by the National police bodies according to the contractual relations . Violation of the legislation of Ukraine on pipeline transport assumes disciplinary, administrative, civil and criminal liability . enterprises, institutions and organisations, that manufacture and supply equipment, pipes and other hardware must comply with the legislative acts . pipeline transport enterprises, institutions and organisations must reimburse costs for participation in works on the recovery from disaster aftermaths . damages incurred to the health and to the property of citizens due to the accidents at mentioned infrastructure facilities, must be fully covered at cost . for the period of temporarily occupation the State Joint-Stock Company “Chornomornaftogaz” opens current account with a special mode of application .