this Law shall regulate legal relations connected with the development, registration, manufacturing, quality control and sale of medicinal products . the legislation on medicinal products shall comprise this Law and other legislative acts adopted under it . falsified medicinal product is a medicinal product that was deliberately labelled not identically (inappropriately) to the data (one or more) on the medicinal product with the appropriate name . active pharmaceutical ingredient (api or active substance) is any substance intended to be used in the manufacture of a medicinal product and that, when so used, becomes its active ingredient . medicinal products are used to cure, diagnose or prevent a disease, to change the condition, structures or physiological functions of the body, to care, treat and mitigate symptoms . state register of medicinal products of Ukraine is a regulatory document containing information on medicinal products . the term "specialised procurement organisations" shall be used in the meaning given in the Law of Ukraine "On Public Procurement" the state policy in the field of development, manufacturing, quality control and sale of medicinal products shall be focused on the support of scientific research . the state shall ensure the availability of the most demanded medicinal products, protection of citizens in the event of harm . the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall implement the state policy in the field of development, manufacturing, quality control and sale of medicinal products . the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state . policy in field of healthcare, the central . executive authority implementing the control over the quality and safety of medicinal . products within their competence shall be responsible for the management . in the case of a medicinal product, the author (and co-author) shall have the right to be rewarded for the use of the medicinal product invented by them clinical trials of medicinal products shall be performed to establish or confirm the efficacy and safety of the medicinal product . they may be performed in healthcare facilities specified by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare . the sponsor of clinical trials shall have the right to be informed about the progress of the clinical trials . clinical trials of medicinal products shall be conducted involving a full-aged legally competent individual – a patient (volunteer) with their written consent to participate in such studies . it is prohibited to conduct clinical trials with the involvement of a minor or a juvenile deprived of parental care, an adopted child or an orphan . the patient or his legal representative shall be liable to receive information on the nature and possible consequences of the clinical trials . the sponsor of clinical trials of a medicinal product shall be obliged to conclude a life and health insurance contract before starting clinical trials . the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare shall make a decision to terminate clinical trials in a threat to the patient's (volunteer's) health or life . medicinal products shall be allowed for use in Ukraine after their state registration, except for cases stipulated by this Law. application for state registration of a medicinal product shall be accompanied by materials of registration dossier . report on evaluation of medicinal product drawn up by the regulatory authority of the country where this medicinal product is registered . a medicinal product registered by the competent authority of the united states of america, the Swiss Confederation, Japan, australia, canada, a centrally authorised medicinal product shall be approved or refused . the decision to approve or refuse the registration of the medicinal product based on the results of authenticity verification of registration materials shall be made within ten working days . medicinal products registered by competent authorities of the european union and used on the territory of these countries or european union Member states, shall not exceed seven working days. data on medicinal product shall be entered into the State Register of Medicinal Products of Ukraine . information provided in an application for state registration of a medicinal product and attachments thereto, shall be subject to state protection against disclosure and unfair commercial use . the state registration of another medicinal product containing the same active substance as a reference/original medicinal product in Ukraine shall be possible not earlier than five years . the period specified in part twelve of this Article may be extended up to six years, if the central executive authority authorises to use it for one or more indications that have a particular advantage over existing ones . the application for state registration of a medicinal product shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the document confirming the compliance of the manufacturing conditions . individuals guilty of disclosure or illegal use of registration information shall bear disciplinary, administrative, civil and/or criminal liability under the laws of Ukraine . state registration of medicinal products based on or related to intellectual property objects . applicants shall submit certified copy of patent or licence . medicinal product may be used in Ukraine for five years from the date of state registration . the decision to refuse the state registration of a medicinal product shall be made if the opinions on its efficacy and safety are not confirmed . state registration may be refused in the event that, as a result of such registration, the valid intellectual property proprietary rights protected by a patent shall be infringed . the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare shall send a written reasoned response to the applicant about the refusal to register a medicinal product . medicinal products made in pharmacies from the approved for use active substances and excipients according to prescriptions of doctors and to order from healthcare facilities shall not be subject to state registration . a medicinal product shall be required to be included in the List of Medicinal Products, medical devices and accessories to them procured using the state budget funds . the state registration of medicinal product purchased by an individual authorised to procure in the field of healthcare and at the same time registered by the competent authority of the united states of america, the Swiss Confederation, Japan, australia, canada . an application for the state registration of such a medicinal product shall be accompanied by a document confirming the registration of the medicinal product in the relevant country or registration by the competent authority of the European Union . the period of authenticity verification of the registration materials shall not exceed seven working days from the date of submission of these materials . the decision to approve or refuse the registration of such a medicinal product shall be made by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare . grounds for refusing state registration shall be as follows: failure to submit relevant materials concerning such medicinal product provided for by this Article or incomplete set of submitted materials . if the state registration of a medicinal product is conducted with labelling and instruction for medical use of the medicinal product, it shall be accompanied by materials of registration dossier . a certified copy of the document confirming the compliance of manufacturing conditions submitted for registration with medicinal product manufacturing requirements in Ukraine . the period of an expert evaluation of the registration materials shall not exceed 30 working days . the decision to approve or refuse the registration of such a medicinal product shall be made by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy . medicinal product registered according to part four of this Article may be in circulation on the territory of Ukraine solely for free supply to the structural health care subdivisions of Oblast State Administrations, Kyiv and sevastopol city state administrations or business entities, licensed to conduct business activities in medical practice . medical preparations for the specific prevention of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) under the obligation for emergency medical use . vaccines or other medical immunobiological preparations for the specific prevention of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) may be subject to accelerated state registration . applicant must prove absence of possibility to provide full data on efficacy and safety . vaccines or other medical immunobiological preparations submitted for state registration under the obligation for emergency medical use shall be available only on the health care provider's prescription . the applicant shall report to the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare on adverse reactions . vaccines or other medical immunobiological preparations registered for emergency medical use under the procedure specified in this Article shall be accompanied by an instruction for medical use in the state language approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare . registration certificate shall be issued for a period of one year with the option to renew for one year . application for state registration for emergency medical use must be signed by the applicant or his authorised representative . a graphic image of the package design and label text(s) of the primary and secondary (if any) packages is required . the applicant has the right to simultaneously submit several such package designs and label texts . grounds for refusing state registration for emergency medical use may be failure to submit relevant materials or incomplete set of the submitted materials . amendments to the registration materials shall be made under the procedure established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare . state registration of vaccines or other medical immunobiological preparations for the specific prevention of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) under the obligation for emergency medical use . central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare has the right to take obligations on behalf of Ukraine . in the event of such consequences, the state shall cover the appropriate compensation payments . licence to medicinal product manufacturing shall be based on the existence of appropriate material and technical resources, qualified personnel . compliance with applicable requirements and characteristics shall be subject to mandatory verification . medicinal products shall be manufactured according to the technical regulations in compliance with the requirements of pharmacopoeial articles and other state standards, technical conditions . medicinal products intended for clinical trials shall have the marking “For clinical trials” . the language of labelling for medicinal products, instructions for their medical use shall be the state language unless otherwise provided by the law . requirements of parts one, two, three and five of this Article shall not apply to medicinal products that are subject to procurement . labelling, as well as instruction for medical use/summary of product characteristics may be in the original language (a language other than the state one) requirements of parts one, two, three and five of this Article shall not apply to medicinal products imported into the territory of Ukraine . state quality control of medicinal products is a set of organisational and legal measures aimed at compliance by business entities . the head of the central executive authority implementing the state policy is ex officio the chief state inspector of Ukraine for Medicinal product quality control . control over the quality of medicinal products in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblasts, cities of Kyiv and sevastopol shall be conducted by the Chief State Inspectors . impose fines on business entities, regardless of their ownership, in case of violation of standards and technical conditions, pharmacopoeial articles and technological regulations . procedure for prohibition (temporary prohibition) of manufacturing, sale and use of medicinal products nonconforming the regulatory acts and regulatory documents . Medicinal products registered in Ukraine may be imported into the territory of Ukraine . there must be a quality certificate for a batch of a medicinal product issued by the manufacturer . the expiry date of medicinal products imported into Ukraine shall be at least half of the period specified by manufacturer. medicinal products subject to procurement based on the results of a procurement procedure conducted by a specialised procurement organisation . it shall be allowed to import into the territory of Ukraine medicinal products registered in Ukraine that are subject to . procurement . only for the implementation of an agreement between the central executive . authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare and the relevant specialised . procuring organization . in the presence of batch quality certificate, which is issued by the manufacturer. import of medicinal products into the territory of Ukraine shall be conducted on the availability of a batch quality certificate issued by the manufacturer . the expiry date of such medicinal products shall be at least 70 per cent of the expired date of the medicinal product specified by manufacturer. medicinal products purchased and imported into Ukraine by an individual authorised to make procurements in the field of healthcare according to the list approved by the Cabinet of Ministers . re-export of medicinal products shall be carried out no later than six months before their expiration date . medicinal products designed solely for the treatment of rare (orphan) diseases are authorised for use in the united states of america or in the member states of the european union . the need for such medicinal products in Ukraine is limited, i.e. the medicinal product is intended for use by a limited number of patients . relevant medicinal products are approved for use according to the established procedure on the territory of one of the following countries: the united states of america, the Swiss Confederation, Japan, australia, canada or under a centralised procedure in the member states of the eu . in cases of natural disasters, catastrophes, epidemics, etc., it shall be allowed to import medicinal products from foreign countries that are not registered in Ukraine . the list of unregistered medicinal products that may be imported into the territory of Ukraine for the purpose of supply shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of healthcare shall be responsible for the safety and efficiency . export of medicinal products from Ukraine shall be conducted according to the procedure established by the legislative acts of Ukraine. a business entity may conduct wholesale and retail trade in medicinal products . it must conform to the licensing conditions of a certain type of activity . the licencee must be included in the list of business entities entitled to conduct electronic retailing of medicinal products. website of the business entity entitled to conduct electronic retailing of medicinal products shall contain information on the contact details of the licensing authority, the state authorities for control over the medicinal product quality . logo is used solely by pharmacies included in the List of Business Entities Entitled to Conduct Electronic Retailing of Medicinal Products . option of providing a pharmacist's consultation when ordering a medicinal product through the pharmacy's website . business entities entitled to conduct electronic retailing of medicinal products under this Law may additionally use electronic healthcare information systems . such systems shall contain: a link to the official licensing authority website; an option of providing a pharmacist's consultation when ordering a medicinal product . it shall be prohibited to conduct the electronic retail trade and delivery to the final consumer of the following medicinal products . business entities licensed to conduct business activities in the retail trade in medicinal products . requirements of this Article shall not apply to an individual authorised to make procurements in healthcare, purchases medicinal products according to the List approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in relation to medicinal products included in such a List . medicinal products may only be sold on the territory of Ukraine, except as otherwise provided by this Law . medicinal products of substandard quality, or those the expiry date of which has passed, shall be disposed of and destroyed . it is prohibited to sell (dispense) to citizens medicinal products without prescriptions . the rules for prescribing medicinal products and the list of medicinal products that may be sold without a doctor's prescription shall be approved . Expenditures for financing the scientific works related to the creation of novel medicinal products shall be charged to the production cost . it shall be allowed to advertise medicinal products that are available without a doctor's prescription and not included in the List of Medicinal products prohibited for advertising . individuals who are guilty of violating the law on medicinal products shall be subject to disciplinary, administrative, civil or criminal liability according to the law . Ukraine shall participate in international co-operation in the field of development, manufacturing, quality control, and sale of medicinal products .