this Law defines the legal and organisational grounds for establishing and operating the industrial parks within the territory of Ukraine . it aims to ensure economic development and increase the competitiveness of territories, activate investment activities, create new jobs . the initiator of the creation is a government authority, the local government, endowed with the powers for land disposal in accordance with the law . trans-border industrial park is an industrial park created and operating by virtue of an international treaty of Ukraine concluded between the governments of states or their authorised initiators of creation . procedure for the creation and operation of such industrial parks is regulated by international treaties of Ukraine . this law shall apply to relations arising in connection with the creation, operation and liquidation of industrial parks . the right to create industrial parks on lands of state and municipal property belongs to state authorities, local authorities that exercise the right of the owner to land on behalf of Ukrainian people . industrial parks may be created on the initiative of lessees after making appropriate changes to the land plot lease agreement . land plot must be located within or outside the localities and belong to industrial lands . use of land plots within the scope of industrial park must respond to sanitary, epidemiological and environmental requirements . land plot of state or municipal property that is free from building is provided to the management company on lease terms . management company is obliged to enact a competition for selection of participant . land plots are provided to participants for the construction and service of real estate objects necessary to carry out economic activities . the initiator of the creation is obliged to submit to the state authority a copy of the decision on the creation of an industrial park . state authority shall create, maintain and publish on its official website a Register of industrial parks, in which industrial parks are included with the application of the initiators of creation . industrial park can be included in the Register if given the time of its including, the integral property complex is missing within it . state authority is obliged to notify in writing within three working days from the date of making a decision to include an industrial park in the Register of industrial parks . initiator of the creation of industrial park must develop and approve the concept of the industrial park, specifying its name, target, objectives, location and size of the land plot . state authority must provide information on relative total amount of energy consumption, water, etc., as well as information on necessary transport infrastructure . industrial park concept is approved by the initiator of the creation by means of making the appropriate decision . business entities in the field of centralised water supplies and drainage, electricity and natural gas market, are obliged to render necessary information regarding the availability of resources . non submission of all necessary information at the application to participate in tender, submission of not complete information or submission of incorrect information can be the reason for non-admission of the applicant . the bidding, documents and materials, presented by the applicants are examined within 30 days from the last day, determined to submit the bids . the tender commission considers the biddings, presented by the applicants, admitted to the tender . it prepares conclusions on determination of the best conditions for the creation and operation of industrial parks . the winner of the tender is the applicant who proposed best conditions . the form of typical contract on creation and operation of an industrial park is approved by state authority . significant terms of the agreement are: 1) scope of agreement; 2) period of the contract; 3) cadastral numbers, location and size of land plots on which the industrial park was created; 5) procedure and terms of industrial park arrangement . contract on creation and operation of an industrial park shall be terminated ahead of schedule . management company is obliged to return to the initiator of the creation land plots not alienated to the property of the participants . in case of before time termination, management company must sign contracts on economic activities within the scope of industrial park . legal entity gain the status of the management company from the day of concluding the contract on creation and operation of an industrial park . the initiator of creation is obliged to notify in writing the state authority within three working days about the acquisition of the status by a legal entity . if the industrial park is included in the Register of industrial parks, state authority must notify the central executive authority implementing the state tax policy . industrial park initiator possesses also other rights and obligations, provided by the contract on creation and operation of the industrial park and legislation . management company has the following right: 1) to bring about economic actions in accordance with the legislation taking into consideration the peculiarities, provided for by this Law; 2) to provide management company and/or participants with the right on land plots . management company is obliged: 1) to execute the terms of the contract on creation and operation of the industrial park; 2) to ensure the execution of industrial park business plan; 3) to receive the documents of permits personally or on behalf of the participants, the approval of executive authorities, local authorities; 4) to create conditions for connection (access) of participants to engineering networks and communications; 5) to request the dissolution of contract in case of breach of contract by the initiator of creation and compensation of the losses caused by non-fulfillment of contract terms management company has also other rights and obligations, provided by the contract . government authority obtains quarterly reports from the management company . formation of state policy regarding the creation and operation of industrial parks is performed by the central executive authority . industrial park concept shall be approved by the initiator of the creation, management company and participants shall perform their economic activities . contract on performing economic activity within the scope of industrial park is concluded between the management company . management company is obliged within three working days to inform in writing state authority regarding the obtaining the status of the participant . a contract on performing economic activity within the scope of industrial park is terminated in case of period termination, for which it was concluded . the contract can be terminated ahead the schedule in the following cases: 1) essential breach by one of the parties of its obligations in accordance with the contract . business entity shall lose the status of the industrial park participant from the day of contract termination . if industrial park is included to the Register of industrial parks, state authority is obliged within one working day from the moment of receiving appropriate notification from the management company . business entity, which has lost the status of participant, performs its economic activity, as well as within the scope of an industrial park, on the general basis . the initiators of creation-business entities and management companies of industrial parks are not involved in share participation in the development of the infrastructure of the settlement . management companies receive state support, provided for this Law and other legislative acts of Ukraine . the lands of industrial parks belong to industrial lands . industrial parks shall be created on land plots with an area of not less than 15 hectares . the released funds shall be applied by relevant entities . a) in Article 287 of Customs Code of Ukraine: after part 5 a new part shall be added to read as follows: “6. machinery, equipment and accessories to them, materials not manufactured in Ukraine” part 7 after words “in parts 1–4” supplement with words “and 6”; 3) part 4 of Article 40 Law of Ukraine “On regulation of city-planning activity” . cabinet of ministers to prepare and submit for consideration to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals for amendments to legislative acts .