the Merchant Shipping Code of Ukraine shall regulate the relations arising in and out of merchant shipping . economic entities may engage in the activities covered by the notion of "merchant shipping" rules for the operation of fishing vessels shall be approved by the central executive authority . if a vessel inflicts damage not provided for under Articles 296 and 314 of this Code, the reimbursement of the losses incurred shall be regulated by the legislation of the state where the action or other circumstance took place . international treaties of Ukraine on merchant shipping shall be applied in Ukraine under the procedure provided for in the Law of Ukraine "On International Agreements of Ukraine" the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of maritime and river transport safety shall approve the allocation of land and water areas for merchant shipping . legal entities and individuals who have violated the rules of this article shall demolish, relocate or make the necessary alteration of buildings and structures hindering navigation or operation of aids to navigation at their own expense . the merchant shipping code of Ukraine shall apply: to seagoing vessels – during their voyage by sea routes as well as by rivers, lakes, reservoirs the rules of this Code shall apply to naval military transportations to the extent not stipulated by special legislation governing such transportations . the limits of liability of a shipowner and an operator of an nuclear vessel flying the flag of an foreign state shall be regulated by the law of the flag state . in the case of resolving a dispute about liability in a court or economic court of Ukraine, the provisions of this code shall apply. a merchant vessel in this Code shall mean any merchant vessel that is used for fishing or other sea trades . the parties shall have the right to deviate in the contract from the rules of this Code relating to the relevant contract, unless those rules stipulate otherwise . a nuclear vessel shall only be owned by the state . a shipowner shall mean a legal entity or individual who operates a vessel on behalf of their name . any vessel which has communication equipment shall be assigned a call sign . procedures for assigning a name to a vessel, an identification number of the shipboard satellite communication station, a call sign and a selective call number shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of maritime and river transport . technical supervision over seagoing vessels and their classification shall be carried out by a classification society selected by the shipowner . a vessel chartered under a bareboat charter (Article 203 of this Code) may be temporarily registered with the State Vessel Register of Ukraine or with the Vessel Book of Ukraine . vessel built in Ukraine shall be subject to registration under the procedure determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. certificate of navigation, ship’s letter of credit and the flag of Ukraine are not required for registration . the registration of a vessel with the State Vessel Register of Ukraine shall be certified by a certificate of the right to fly the State Flag of Ukraine (certificate of navigation) and the registration with the Vessel Book of Ukraine – by ship’s letter . a fee shall be charged for the registration and for any subsequent changes to the records made therein on the vessel’s registration . the procedure for charging this fee and its amount shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field the right to fly the State Flag of Ukraine shall be granted to a vessel owned by the state or owned by an individual Ukrainian citizen or a legal entity in Ukraine established solely by Ukrainian proprietors . if a person flies the state flag without acquiring the right, they shall be liable under the procedure prescribed by law . vessels registered with the Vessel Book of Ukraine shall carry a ship’s letter instead of the documents referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3, part 1 of this Article . a vessel rendering a special public service and a sports vessel may not have a tonnage certificate . certificate of the right to fly the State Flag of Ukraine and the certificate of title shall be issued by the harbour master of the port where the vessel is registered . certain categories of vessels may not have a tonnage certificate or a load line certificate . a fee shall be charged for the issuance of vessel’s papers referred to in Articles 35 and 37 of this Code . a vessel may only be arrested or released from arrest by a judgement of a court, a commercial court or the chairman of the Maritime Arbitration Commission . a maritime claim shall mean a claim that arises out of the title and other proprietary rights to a ship . the right of the harbour master to detain vessels under the procedure provided for in Articles 80–82 and 91 of this Code Article 42 is not limited . a vessel against which maritime claims have arisen may only be arrested under at least one of the following conditions . a claim falls within the category of privileged claims under clauses 1, 2, 3–5 and 7 of Article 359 of this Code . the procedure relating to the arrest of the vessel must be initiated in accordance with the provisions of article 43 of the code . arrested vessel shall be released if a maritime claim is secured in an acceptable form and sufficient amount . any request to release a vessel from arrest does not constitute an admission of liability, a waiver of remedies or a right to limit liability . a vessel that may have been arrested on the same maritime claim is not liable to arrest if: a) the amount of security for such a claim, which has already been received, is not insufficient or b) the rules contained in clauses “b” and “c”, part 1 of this Article do not apply . the rules of this chapter shall also apply to state-owned vessels engaged solely in commercial activities . the vessel's command staff shall include master's mates, ship engineers, electrical officers, radio officers, ship's doctor, boatswain . minimum safe manning shall be determined by central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of transport . positions of master and other officers shall be open to persons who have appropriate ranks . the procedure for hiring vessel’s crew, their rights and duties, conditions of work on the vessel and payment for labour, social amenities at sea and in port, as well as the procedure and grounds for dismissal, shall be regulated by the legislation of Ukraine, this Code . Repatriation at the shipowner’s expense shall be carried out in such cases: in case of dismissal on the initiative of the proprietor or their authorised body . the minimum standards provided by the proprietors of merchant vessels shall not be lower than those set by the international treaties whereto Ukraine is a party . the master of a vessel shal be responsible for managing the vessel, including navigation . a crew member who carries such property shall reimburse the shipowner for any loss . for failure to comply with the obligations specified in this Article, the master of a vessel shall be liable in accordance with the valid legislation of Ukraine . master of each vessel that has collided shall, as far as they can do so without serious danger to their passengers, crew and vessel, render assistance to the other vessel, its passengers and crew after the collision . the masters of the vessels shall inform each other of the names of their vessels, their home ports and the ports of departure and destination or the nearest port whereat the vessel the master of a vessel shall have the right to apply incentives and impose disciplinary penalties on the vessel’s crew members . the master shall abandon the vessel last after taking all possible actions to salvage the vessel's log, radio and engine logs, maps of the voyage, documents and valuables . if the master believes the vessel is in imminent danger of loss, they shall allow the crew to abandon it . if the actions provided for in the law of Ukraine on criminal liability are committed on a vessel that is sailing, the master of the vessel shall be authorised to undertake procedural acts under the criminal procedure legislation of Ukraine and the relevant Instruction . if all vital supplies, including minimum food stock, have been exhausted the master may, for the purpose of general distribution, requisition the necessary amount of foodstuffs . master shall draw up a record of every birth or marriage on board the vessel . description of the deceased's property on the vessel shall be attached to the record . master of a vessel shall deliver the record of death and description of property to the consul of Ukraine, if the vessel arrives in a foreign port . the list of Ukrainian seaports open for call by foreign vessels shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . owners (users) of marine terminals, shipowners and other economic entities shall ensure the safety of navigation under the rules stipulated by the mandatory regulations for the port . navigational and hydrographic support for navigation in inland waters, territorial sea and exclusive maritime economic zone of Ukraine shall be provided through establishment, development and maintenance of aids to navigation . a seaport harbour master shall be appointed and dismissed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of maritime and river transport safety . he shall supervise compliance with the maritime legislation and regulations, as well as international maritime treaties of Ukraine, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . the harbour master is responsible for the timely preparation, publication and provision of navigational charts, instructions and guides to navigation . orders of seaport harbour master on matters of ensuring safety of navigation and maintaining the order in the seaport shall be binding for all vessels, legal entities and individuals that are within the water area and territory of that seaport . order of harbour master to detain a vessel or cargo following maritime claims specified in Article 80 of this Code shall be valid for three days . if no judgement to arrest the vessel is adopted by a court, economic court or the Maritime Arbitration Commission within the specified period, they shall be immediately released vessel must comply with valid laws and regulations of Ukraine while staying at seaport . each vessel shall be inspected before putting to sea in order to verify the vessel’s papers . harbour master shall refuse to issue a permit to leave the port if a vessel is unseaworthy, the loading, supplying, manning requirements are violated . a seaport harbour master may detain a vessel on the grounds referred to in part 2 of this Article until the deficiencies detected as a result of the inspection are rectified . if the deficiencies cannot be rectified on site, the vessel shall be allowed to proceed to the nearest vessel repair yard . the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of transport shall approve areas of compulsory pilotage . a vessel shall not navigate without a maritime pilot, unless the vessel belongs to a category of vessels that are exempt from compulsory pilotage . a seaport harbour master may establish mandatory pilotage for vessels which themselves (nuclear vessels and others) or their cargo may constitute a threat of harm to the natural environment . the maritime pilot shall monitor the state and correctness of channel buoyage, the state of the coastal navigation signs . enterprise employing a pilot shall be liable for accidents at sea caused by the maritime pilots during the performance of their duties . master of a vessel shall pay a fine in the amount of twice the pilotage fee, regardless of the liability established by the valid legislation of Ukraine . if a maritime pilot is called in, the enterprise providing pilotage services shall immediately send a marine pilot to the vessel . the maritime pilot shall not leave the vessel before they have anchored it, docked it in a safe place, put it at sea or been replaced with another pilot . the pilot shall have the right to refuse to continue piloting the vessel in the presence of a third party . even after the pilot has refused to pilot the vessel, they shall remain on the command bridge . pilotage fees, a separate remuneration and fines shall be included in the income of the enterprise employing the maritime pilot . outside the territorial sea of Ukraine, the vessel traffic control service shall serve vessels only at the request of the master of the vessel . vessel traffic service shall operate under the Model Regulation on the Vessel Traffic Control Service . pilot operators of the vessel traffic control service may be citizens of Ukraine . pilot operators must meet the requirements set out in the Regulation on the pilot operator . liability for accidents caused by the pilot shall be borne by the relevant organisation . maritime agent organisations (maritime agent) shall operate in or out of the seaport as permanent representatives of the shipowner . they undertake to provide services in the field of merchant shipping for remuneration . a maritime agent shall perform formalities and actions related to the vessel’s arrival, stay and departure, assist the master of the vessel in establishing contacts with the port services, local executive authorities . a maritime agency contract concluded for a fixed term shall terminate upon its expiry, unless the terms of the contract stipulate otherwise . the rules of this Chapter apply to the recovery, removal or destruction of property that has sunk within the internal waters or territorial sea of Ukraine. sunken property hinders navigation, marine fisheries, hydraulic engineering or other works . owner must immediately report what has happened to the harbour master of the nearest seaport . seaport harbour master shall notify the central executive authority implementing the state policy . property raised by the seaport administration under Article 124 of this Code may be reclaimed by its owner within two years from the day when the property has been actually raised . if the property is sold, the owner of the property shall be reimbursed the proceeds from the sale after deduction of all expenses . the carrier and the cargo owner may conclude long-term contracts for organising carriage by sea . a maritime common carrier shall not be entitled to enter into contracts with cargo owners . acceptance of cargo for carriage in certain directions may be prohibited only in exceptional cases . carriage between Ukrainian ports and foreign ports may be carried out by vessels that fly the State Flag of Ukraine . charterer and the сharteree shall be recognised as persons who have entered into a contract of affreightment (charter) between themselves . the terms and conditions of the contract for carriage by sea shall be determined by the bill of lading . the carrier may issue a document other than the bill of lading to prove receipt of the cargo for carriage . the consignor shall be liable to the carrier for all consequences resulting from incorrect or incomplete information in the said document . for dangerous cargo – the serial number of the article or substance under the system adopted by the united nations, the class (subclass), the subsidiary hazards and packaging group . data referred to in clause 7 of this Article shall not be verified by the carrier . the carrier shall include them in the bill of lading with an appropriate reservation . other conditions and reservations may also be stated by agreement of the parties . consignor shall be entitled to claim the return of the cargo to the port of departure . each piece of cargo shall bear the full and clear markings prescribed in the regulations . the carrier shall not be liable if it proves that the unseaworthiness of the vessel was caused by hidden defects . cargo may be loaded on another vessel only with the consent of the consignor or charterer . the carrier shall be responsible for the correct placement, tightening and separation of the cargo on the vessel . parties may, by agreement, set an additional period counted after completion of the loading/unloading . consignor shall be liable for all losses caused to the carrier or to third parties in connection with the carriage of the said cargo . cargo for which false information has been provided may at any time be unloaded or destroyed or rendered harmless by the carrier . the carrier shall retain the right to receive full freight . freight for carriage of such cargo shall not be refundable and, if it was not paid at the time of despatch, the carrier may recover it in full . the carrier shall be entitled to freight in an amount proportionate to the actual distance of cargo carriage until terminated . each of the parties may also repudiate from the contract during the voyage due to any of the circumstances referred to in Article 156 of this Code . in such a case the consignor shall reimburse the carrier for all costs incurred by the latter for the cargo, including the costs of unloading . if not all of the vessel has been provided for the carriage of the cargo, the master shall unload the cargo at another port in accordance with the consignor’s instructions . the master may do the same if no such instruction is received within three days of the notification . a deviation of a vessel from its intended route shall not be deemed a breach of the contract for carriage of cargo by sea . the consignee shall reimburse the costs incurred by the carrier at the expense of the cargo . the carrier shall retain the right of lien on cargo if it is delivered to a warehouse that does not belong to the consignor or the charterer . inspection and verification of quantity of cargo shall be carried out at the port of discharge and port of loading, if so provided in the bill of lading or another document . the consignee and the carrier shall have the right (each) to require the cargo to be inspected and/or the quantity to be verified before the delivery . if at the time of acceptance of the cargo carried under a bill of lading the consignee has not reported in writing a shortage of or damage to the cargo, unless it is proved otherwise . contracts that contravene this Article shall be null and void. cargo deposited for storage is not claimed within two months from the date of vessel arrival . unclaimed cargo which deteriorates quickly may also be sold before the end of the specified period . cargoes stored in ports for longer than the prescribed periods shall be sold under the procedure laid down by the valid legislation of Ukraine . consignee shall, on acceptance of the cargo, pay to the carrier proper freight . carrier may not deliver the cargo until the amounts or security referred to in part 3 of this Article have been paid . the consignor may repudiate the contract with payment of half of the full freight and demurrage charges, if any . consignor may only repudiate the contract subject to payment of the full freight, demurrage charges, if any, and compensation for expenses incurred by the carrier in respect of the cargo, but not included in the amount of the freight . if the cargo is lost, short or damaged for reasons for which the carrier is not liable, the freight shall be paid pro rata to the distance travelled . a carrier shall be liable for loss, shortage of and damage to cargo accepted for carriage . agreement not in conformity with this Article shall be null and void, except for liability agreements . the carrier’s liability for shortage of cargo shall be as provided in Article 176 of this Code . the carrier shall be liable to such extent as: 1) for loss and shortage of cargo – in the amount of the actual value of the lost and short cargo . Expenses related to the carriage of the cargo (freight, duty, etc.) should have been made by the cargo owner, but have not been made due to the shortage or damage . the compensation for the damaged piece or unit of the short cargo, may not exceed 666.67 units of account or 2.0 units per kilogramme of the gross weight . an agreement to reduce the said amounts shall be null and void . the carrier shall not be entitled to the limitation of liability provided for in part 1 of this Article if it is proved that the loss, shortage or damage resulted from an action or omission of the carrier . if the bill of lading specifies the number of pieces or units of the cargo placed in a container or on another facility, the quantity of cargo in the container or the other unit shall be taken as one piece or one unit of the the consignor or consignee shall be liable for vessel’s demurrage due to failure to provide or late provision of the cargo, delay in loading or unloading . a fine is levied incontestably (without acceptance) after the estimate of the demurage time and the amount of the fine has been submitted to the cargo owner . provisions of this chapter shall apply to carriage of passengers and luggage if the vessel flies the State Flag of Ukraine; 2) the contract for carriage is concluded in Ukraine any provision in a contract concluded before the occurrence of an event which caused the death of a passenger or injury to health or loss of or damage to luggage shall be null and void . the invalidity of this condition does not invalidate the contract for carriage, which shall continue to be governed by the rules of this Chapter . a contract for carriage of a passenger by sea shall be terminated without repudiation by the parties if any circumstances referred to in clauses 1 and 2, part 1, Article 158 of this Code occur . the carrier shall be entitled to delay the departure of the vessel, to change the route of carriage, the place of embarkation or disembarkation of the passenger . if the passenger fails to show up for departure due to illness, or refuses carriage before departure for the same reason, the fare and baggage if the passenger fails to comply with the requirements of this Article, the passenger shall be deemed, unless the contrary is proved, to have received their luggage undamaged . Luggage not claimed within three months of the vessel arrival at the port of destination may be sold under the procedure established by the central executive authority . the carrier shall not be liable for loss of or damage to money, securities, precious metals, jewellery, ornaments, works of art or other valuables . if the carrier proves that the fault or negligence of the passenger has caused or contributed to their death, the court hearing the case may exempt the carrier from all or part of its liability . the carrier and the passenger may, by express written agreement, set higher limits of liability than those provided for in this Article . cruise participant has the right to repudiate the cruise contract at any time before the commencement of the cruise . a cruise organiser must ensure that the vessel is in proper condition under the provisions of Article 192 of this Code . any agreement of the parties that limits the rights of cruise participant under this chapter shall be null and void . cruise organiser liable for damage caused by death or injury to a cruise participant . charterer may, within the limits of the rights granted to them under the time charter, conclude in their own name an independent charter with a third party . a time charter contract shall contain the name of the shipowner and the name and technical and operational data of the vessel . the charterer shall operate the vessel under the terms and conditions of the charter, as defined in the time charter . charterer is liable for losses caused by salvage, damage or loss of the vessel if the losses are due to their fault . if a vessel is lost, the freight shall be payable till the date of the loss . the remuneration due to a time-chartered vessel for salvage at sea before the end of the time charter shall belong to the charterer . a lease contract for a Ukrainian state-owned vessel may only be entered into if the requirements set out in Article 17 of this Code are met . the lessor shall be liable for defects in the vessel which existed at the time of its delivery to the lessee . lessee is obliged to maintain the vessel and bear the costs related to its maintenance and repair . lessor has the right to repudiate the vessel lease contract and demand the return of the vessel . improvements made by the lessee to the vessel may be withdrawn if the lessor does not agree to reimburse their value . a party to the sea towing contract shall in good time bring its vessel or another floating object into a condition suitable for the performance of the works . proprietors of vessels and objects of towing shall not be liable for defects in their vessel if they prove that they could not have been detected when they exercised due diligence (hidden defects) towboat owner shall harbour or unharbour a vessel or any other floating object . contract shall contain terms and conditions regarding ports (points) of departure and destination, the towing time, the rights and obligations of the parties, the liability for breach of the contract . inter-port towing contract shall be concluded in writing . towing between the ports of Ukraine may only be carried out by the vessels flying the flag of Ukraine . inter-port towage shall be managed by the master of the towing vessel . if the towboat arrives at the point of departure in an unseaworthy condition, the proprietor of the object being towed has the right to terminate the contract . marine insurance contracts with resident policyholders and contracts for compulsory insurance of passengers against accidents occurring during carriage by sea shall be concluded by insurers recognised as such under the legislation of Ukraine . subject matter of marine insurance may be any maritime-related property interest, such as a vessel, cargo, freight, fare, rent, the profit expected from the cargo and claims secured by the vessel . marine insurance contract may be concluded by the policyholder in favour of a third party . policyholder bears all obligations under the contract without a separate agency . if the insured cargo is alienated, the insurance contract shall remain in force . marine insurance contract shall remain in force even if the possibility of loss to be indemnified has passed or the loss has already occurred . policyholder shall provide the insurer with all necessary information immediately upon receipt of the cargo . if the policyholder fails to provide or untimely provides the necessary information, the insurer shall be entitled to refuse to indemnify for losses under the relevant cargoes . the policy or certificate of insurance shall take precedence over the general policy . the insurer shall not be liable for damage caused by natural properties of the cargoes themselves . the rules of Articles 256, 257 and 258 of this Code shall apply to freight insurance . any change that increases the risk gives the insurer the right to revise the contract . the policyholder shall be obliged to protect the insurer's interests in a general average statement . in the event of an insured event, the insurer shall be entitled to be exempted from further obligations . the expenses referred to in Article 266 of this Code shall be reimbursed pro rata to the ratio of the insured amount to the insured value. a vessel shall be deemed missing when no news of it has been received within three months or, if the receipt of news may have been delayed as a result of military action, within six months . the policyholder may declare the insurer to waive their rights to all insured property (abandonment) and receive the full insured amount . if after receipt of indemnity from the insurer it appears that the vessel has not been lost or the seized vessel or cargo are going to be released, the insurer may require the policyholder to retain the property (Article 270 and clause 4 of Article 271 of this Code) the insurer shall acquire, up to the amount paid, a right of claim against the person liable for the damage caused . in the event of general average losses, the general average shall be adjusted between the vessel, the freight and the cargo pro  relations arising out of general average shall be governed by the law of the state where the vessel has completed its voyage . if all persons whose interests are affected by the general average belong to Ukraine, the legislation of Ukraine shall apply . loss caused by throwing overboard the cargo or vessel’s accessories and loss from damage to the vessel or cargo during general salvation actions . general accident shall also include or be equated with costs caused by the vessel being forced to enter a place of refuge or to return to the port of departure . costs of storage, including reasonable insurance, costs of back-loading and stowage of cargo, fuel or supplies unloaded or moved . fuel, supplies and harbour costs incurred during the delay shall be reimbursed . the general average shall be adjusted in the manner laid down in Article 277 of this Code . Article 282. Cargo undeclared or misdeclared shall be treated as cargo . cargoes knowingly delivered for carriage under a wrong name shall not be adjusted in the manner set out in Article 277 of this Code . however, their owners shall be obliged to participate on a common basis in the contributions relating to the general average . the value at the time of unloading shall include the value of insurance and freight . two per cent shall be charged on the amount of the costs recoverable under the general average . interest shall accrue on the amounts paid up to the date of payment . the value of the vessel shall be determined without taking into account the positive or negative effect of the bareboat or time charter . cargo and belongings of the passengers with no bill of lading issued shall not be included in the contributions relating to the general average . the average stator shall be guided by the international custom of merchant shipping when the law is incomplete . loss that is not covered by Articles 277, 279, 280 of this Code shall be recognised as a partial (non-general) average . losses shall not be adjusted between the vessel, the cargo and the freight . Article 296. Applicable law in case of vessel collision damage governed by law of the state where the collision took place . if all vessels colliding flies the same flag, the legislation of the flag state of those vessels shall apply, regardless of where the collision took place . a collision of vessels shall be equated with cases where losses are caused by one vessel to another or to persons, cargo or other property on the vessel . nothing in this chapter shall affect the liability of any person that follows from any contract . shipowners jointly and severally liable to third parties for losses arising from death or injury of people . liability laid down in Articles 299, 300 and 302 of this Code also applies if the collision was caused by the pilot or the vessel traffic control service . pollution damage shall mean damage caused outside the vessel by pollutants to the marine environment, coast, or other objects . if pollution damage is caused by leakage or discharge of pollutants from several vessels, the proprietors of those vessels shall be jointly liable for all the damage . the proprietor of a vessel carrying in bulk more than 2,000 tonnes of oil as cargo shall insure or otherwise secure (by a bank or another guarantee) its liability . a lawsuit for compensation for oil pollution damage may be brought directly against the insurer . a vessel carrying in bulk as cargo more than 2,000 tonnes of oil shall have an appropriate valid certificate confirming that the liability of the vessel's proprietor is secured . nuclear damage shall mean damage caused to a person or property by radioactive properties . nuclear damage shall not mean damage to the nuclear vessel itself, its equipment, fuel and food supplies . a nuclear incident shall mean an event or series of events that are caused by the same cause . liability for nuclear damage is borne solely by the operator of the vessel . recourse claim may be made to a person who intentionally caused nuclear damage . a recourse claim may also be brought by a person who has compensated for nuclear damage . liability of nuclear vessel operator limited to 99.75 million units of account, including legal costs . several nuclear vessel operators who have jointly caused nuclear damage are liable jointly and severally . the liability of the nuclear vessel operator under Article 318 of this Code shall not apply if the vessel was not authorised for operation at the time of the incident . a lawsuit for compensation for nuclear damage may be brought directly against the insurer . rules of this chapter shall apply in the event of salvage of seagoing vessels in danger . the law of the state whose flag the vessel has flown shall apply . article 330. Salvage of people No remuneration shall be demanded from the salvaged people . the amount of the remuneration shall be determined by agreement between the parties and, in the absence of agreement, by a court, commercial court or the Maritime Arbitration Commission . any salvage agreement that was made at the time and under the influence of danger may, at the request of either party, be declared null and void . the distribution of remuneration among salvors shall be made by their agreement or, in the absence of agreement, by a court on the basis of the criteria specified in Article 333 of this Code . the rules in part 1 of this Article shall not apply to the distribution . of the salvage compensation for vessels for which such operations constitute a professional activity . the proprietor of a salvaged vessel shall use all means to ensure that the owners of the cargo have, before it is released, provided sufficient security for the claim against them . the master shall state a sea protest in order to secure evidence to protect the rights and lawful interests of the shipowners . a protest shall be stated within twenty-four hours from the moment the vessel has registered its arrival in the port . notary or other officer (Article 342 of this Code) shall draw up an act of sea protest on the grounds of the master’s statement . the shipowner’s liability shall be limited to the limits laid down in Article 352 . if the damage referred to in clause 2 was caused by a person who was not on the vessel, the owner responsible for that person’s acts and omissions may limit their liability . liability of the shipowner shall not be limited if it is proved that the damage resulted from their own action with the intention to cause such damage . limitation of liability under Article 349 of this Code shall not apply to claims caused by a salvage or about a contribution related to a general average . for a vessel with a tonnage of not more than 500 units – 333,000 units of account . claims for loss of life or injury shall be used to pay the unpaid balance of such claims on a pro-rata basis . limits of liability provided for in Article 352 of this Code shall apply in the aggregate to all claims arising out of any one event and brought against one shipowner . claims secured by a pledge shall be subject to priority over other claims . claims arising from the employment relationship, claims for compensation for damage caused by injury, other damage to health or death, as all of these claims concern the relevant court . claims for payment of services rendered at the port shall be equated with the requirements of clause 7 or 8, depending on the property from which they are compensated . clauses 1–7 of Article 358 of this Code shall be compensated preferentially from the value of the vessel . claims referred to in Article 358 of this Code shall be compensated in the order of priority . claims arising from the same event shall be deemed to arise at the same time . right of priority compensation shall cease after one year from the date on which the claim arose . a mortgage shall not mean alienation of the vessel to the mortgagee . a mortgagor of seagoing vessels shall be obliged to keep a Mortgage Ledger . the prior mortgagee’s right of lien shall remain effective . preferential rights of mortgagees to recover their claims shall be exercised . mortgagee acquires the right to foreclose on the pledged vessel if, by the time the obligation secured by the mortgage becomes due, it is not fulfilled . the mortgagee shall indemnify their claim in full, including interest, losses caused by default and, in the cases provided for in legislation or the mortgage contract, a penalty . a person who has made a claim for the forced sale of a vessel or vessel under construction shall submit to the court an extract from the relevant register . all mortgages, other than those the liability under which has been assumed by the purchaser, and all marine liens and other obligations shall terminate . a court, commercial court or the Maritime Arbitration Commission shall, at the request of the buyer, issue to the buyer a certificate confirming that the vessel is not bound by any mortgage . costs resulting from the arrest or detention of a vessel shall be payable from the sale proceeds in the first instance . the mortgagee shall be obliged to issue duly certified documents proving the full or partial fulfilment of the obligation . if the mortgagor goes bankrupt after registering the mortgage with the Mortgage Ledge, the obligations under the registered mortgage shall be deemed to be unfulfilled . the right to lodge complaints and lawsuits shall be granted to the consignor of the cargo . the absence of a loss and damage claim shall not preclude a complaint and lawsuit if it can be proved that the loss & damage claim was refused . no right of complaints or right to lawsuits may be assigned to other organisations or persons . a loss and damage claim shall be drawn up to certify discrepancies between the name, weight or number of packages of the cargo or luggage in kind and the data indicated in the document of carriage . interest shall be charged on the amount payable at the average rate of bank interest existent in the location of the creditor . complaints arising out of the carriage of luggage may be made against the carrier or the port of departure or destination . complaints arising out of the carriage of cargo by sea in direct intermodal and direct water traffic shall be made to the carrier by whose means of transport the goods have been delivered or are to be delivered to the port of destination . the complaint about the shortage, damage or deterioration of cargo shall be accompanied by a document certifying the value of the cargo . a two-year period of limitation shall apply to claims arising out of contracts for carriage of passengers and luggage, bareboat chartering, vessel leasing, towing, pilotage, marine insurance, agreements entered into by the master of a vessel by virtue of statutory rights, vessel collision and salvage operations . in respect of claims for compensation for the shortage of or damage to the cargo, for late delivery or delay in delivery of the cargo and for recovery of overcharge or undercharge for carriage . for counterclaims under Article 302 of this Code, a one-year limitation period shall apply calculated from the date of payment of the relevant amount . limitation periods established for claims under this Code shall continue for up to three years in the event that the vessel to which claims relate could not be found in Ukrainian waters .