ukrainian law regulates legal relations in connection with state registration, production, purchase, transportation, storage, trade, human health and environmentally friendly use of pesticides and agrochemicals . "pesticides" means toxic substances, their compounds, or mixtures of chemical or biological substances intended to destroy, control and stop the development of pests, as well as rodents, weed, tree and shrub vegetation, trash fish . “counterfeit pesticides and agrochemicals” means products that do not meet the established requirements for pesticide and agricultural chemicals . this Law shall include this Law and other legislative acts adopted in accordance with it . priority of preserving human health and protecting the environment over economic benefits . import into customs territory of Ukraine, produce, sell, apply and advertise pesticides and agrochemicals before their state registration, except for cases specified in this Law . an obligatory condition for import and application of pesticide not registered in Ukraine for these purposes shall be documentary proof of state registration in the country where they are produced . state testing of pesticides and agrochemicals shall be conducted in enterprises, institutions and organisations upon the decision of the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of environmental protection . the purpose of field testing shall be to establish or confirm the biological efficiency of new pesticide compared to those applied . agricultural products resulting from field testing of new active substance shall be subject to destruction in compliance with sanitary regulations . a prerequisite for state registration of pesticides and agrochemicals is relevant documentation on their safe application . authorities exercising state oversight over their application shall be provided with standard samples . after termination of registration, re-registration shall be carried out on a fee basis in the manner and amount established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . state registration of pesticides and agrochemicals shall be the ground for state oversight . citizens shall import registered pesticide and agricultural chemicals into the customs territory of Ukraine in the amount necessary for domestic use . environmental risk of activities related to import to the territory of Ukraine of pesticides and agrochemicals, their transportation and use shall be subject to compulsory insurance . each unit of goods shall be accompanied by a recommendation on its application specifying methods, rates and frequency of use . a list of pesticides and agrochemicals permitted for use in Ukraine, including for retail and aerial application, shall be approved by the central executive authority . the application of agrichemicals on the lands used for nature protection, recreational and historical and cultural purposes shall be carried out in accordance with legislation . state policy in the field of activities related to pesticides and agrochemicals shall be implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . competence of central executive authority shaping state policy includes development and approval of methodologies for determining compliance . of pesticide residues in water, soil and agricultural products . competence of the central executive authority implementing the state agrarian policy may include other activities related to pesticides and agrochemicals in accordance with the law . competence includes state sanitary and epidemiological expertise of plans for state testing of pesticide . pesticide residues in water bodies, water used for drinking and household needs, bathing, sports, organised recreation and for medical purposes . implementing the state policy in the field of environmental protection shall include state testing of pesticides and agrochemicals of domestic and foreign production . competence of the central executive authority shaping the state health policy shall include establishment of sanitary and hygienic requirements for transportation, storage and application . competence of the central executive authority shaping the state agrarian policy may include other activities related to pesticides and agrochemicals in accordance with the law . competence of central executive authorities implementing the state policy on state supervision (oversight) in the field of environmental protection, rational use, reproduction and protection of natural resources . law on pesticides and agrochemicals entails civil, disciplinary, administrative or criminal liability . it also imposes administrative penalties on persons guilty of violating the law . in case of contamination of foodstuffs with residues, the right to prohibit their processing and sale is granted . workers directly engaged in activities related to pesticides and hazardous agrochemicals shall be entitled to a preferential pension, additional leave and shorter working hours in accordance with applicable legislation . the list of categories of workers entitled to benefits shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . state authorities exercising state supervision and state oversight over compliance with the legislation on pesticides and agrochemicals shall be carried out from the State and local budgets of Ukraine . extra-budgetary financing sources for the activities of these authorities shall include: receipts for work performed under agreements with enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens.