transport is one of the most important fields of public production and is intended to meet the needs of the population and public production in transportation . this Law defines the legal, economic, organisational and social basis of the transport operation . it does not apply to vehicles that carry out technological transportation only within the territory of enterprises . public administration in the field of transport shall be carried out by the central executive authority . local representatives councils and other bodies designated for this purpose . transport management bodies assist authorities and self-government in the exercise of their powers . transport companies carry out transportation and provision of services on the basis of state contracts, state orders and contracts for the transportation of passengers, cargo, baggage and mail . tariffs for transport services are set in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine . compensation for losses from free of charge transportation of benefit receiving groups of citizens is guided by regulatory acts . vehicles, structures, financial resources, transport equipment belong to the unified transport system . vehicles must meet the safety, labour protection and ecology requirements, and have an appropriate certificate . transport lands are recognised as land provided for use by transport companies and organisations . transport companies shall have the right to: determine the term and schedule of transportation . transport companies are responsible for the loss, shortage, spoiling and damage of cargo, baggage, mail . protection of cargo and transport facilities is carried out by employees of transport companies . protection and escort of dangerous and valuable goods according to the list approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are provided by senders (recipients) of goods throughout the entire route . transport companies and organisations take urgent measures to eliminate the consequences of natural disasters, accidents and catastrophes in transport . losses caused to transport as a result of deliberate blockage of transport communications and other illegal actions aimed at the obstruction of continuous and undisturbed vehicle operation are compensated . transport companies are obligated to provide life and health safety of citizens, vehicle operation safety, environment conservation . personnel directly involved in providing traffic safety, need to have appropriate professional training and be physically healthy and fit to perform their duties . rules of being and performing work in an area of increased danger are established by the central executive authority . issues of traffic safety on the territory of Ukraine are governed on the basis of regulations adopted in Ukraine and international agreements of Ukraine . transportation of passengers, cargo, baggage, mail by air, and in some cases by other modes of transport, are subject to mandatory control for compliance with safety requirements . central executive authority in charge of implementing the state policy on land transport safety . exercise other powers defined by laws and assigned to it by the President of Ukraine . central executive agency in charge in the field of maritime and river transport safety is the president of the president . keeps records and carries out analysis the causes of catastrophes, accidents, incidents in sea and river transport . monitors the conclusion of contracts of compulsory liability insurance of entities of transportation of dangerous goods . prepares proposals for the appointment of conformity assessment authorities, organises training . performs Port State Control over the compliance of vessels calling at the ports of Ukraine, the territorial sea and inland waters, regardless of their flag . inspects for readiness of emergency rescue services, general security services of the departmental fire protection on maritime and river transport . issues Navigator licence of a small-sized (small) vessel, a merchant vessel, which is allowed to sail on navigable inland waterways of Ukraine . unified transport system of Ukraine comprises of general use transport (railway, maritime, river, automobile and air service, as well as urban electric transport, including subway); industrial railway transport; departmental transport; pipeline transport; general use communication lines . transport system must meet public production and national security requirements, have the extensive infrastructure to provide the full range of transport services . railway transport lands shall include lands provided for use to railway transport companies and organisations in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine in force . lands must be maintained in an appropriate sanitary state and used for growing wood including timber, and animal husbandry forage . technical supervision of vessels shall be agreed with the port administration . river transport companies shall carry out the traffic of passengers, cargo, baggage, mail, ports and quays, vessels, vessel repair and shipbuilding works, repair and operation bases, waterways infrastructure enterprises, educational, healthcare, physical culture and sport, culture institutions, design organisations . river transport lands shall include lands provided for use for: ports, specialised berths, quaies and boatyards with all the technical buildings and facilities . for river navigation-related operations and float on internal waterways outside of human automobile transport lands include lands provided for use for buildings and equipment of energy, garage, fuel distribution facilities, bus terminals and stations, service stations, petrol stations, motor transport and forwarding enterprises . lands that are located outside of the road allowance land strip boundaries are provided to road organisations for use in accordance with the legislation in force . urban electric transport companies carry out transportation of passengers, cargo, baggage, mail . departmental transport comprises of vehicles of enterprises, institutions and organisations . industrial timber (conifer trees, birch, linden, etc.) can be grown in forest plantations . road management enterprises must perform the replacement of fruit trees to industrial wood trees in woodland belts alongside the intensive traffic motorways . Article 39. Intermodal coordination between transport companies Relations between enterprises of different transport type during transportation of passengers, cargo, baggage, mail are determined by codes (chargers)