subsoil is the part of the earth's crust situated under the surface of the dry land and the bottom of water basins . mining relations in Ukraine shall be regulated by the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine “On environmental protection”, this Code . the specifics of the use in the implementation of the production sharing agreement, including those related to provision, transfer, restriction, temporary ban (suspension) the subsoil is the exclusive property of the Ukrainian people and is provided only for use . man-made mineral deposits are places where wastes from the extraction, separation and processing of mineral raw materials have accumulated . classification of minerals as minerals of national and local significance is carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . competence of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine in the field of mining relations regulation . includes determining the main directions of state policy in field of geological study, use and protection of subsoil . also involves state control over formation and use of man-made deposits and mineral raw materials processing . competence of the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea involves: 1) distribution of fees for the use of mineral resources among the relevant local budgets . competence of oblast, Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils involve: 1) provision of subsoil for use to develop mineral deposits of local significance . authorities in charge of public administration in the field of geological study, use and protection of subsoil shall be carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central executive authority ensuring the formation of state policy . authorities are obliged to provide and publish information necessary to ensure transparency in extractive industries . citizens have the right to participate in the development and implementation of measures . subsoil users can be enterprises, institutions, organisations, citizens of Ukraine . an association of legal entities that is not a legal entity may be a user . a term of use without a pre-established term is considered permanent. a special permit for the geological study of amber-bearing subsoil is granted for a period of five years . carrying out planned mining activities stipulated by the Law of Ukraine “On environmental impact assessment” special subsoil use permits are granted to auction winners, except in cases specified by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . the responsibility for compliance with the conditions provided for by special permits shall be borne by the entity that has received a special permit . rights to subsoil use may be transferred to third parties simultaneously with the transfer of rights and obligations under the production sharing agreement . re-issuance of special subsol use permits is carried out by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of geological study and rational use of subsol . mining allotment is a part of the subsoil provided to users for industrial development of mineral deposits and purposes not related to the extraction of minerals . provision of mining allostments to investors with whom a production sharing agreement has been concluded is carried out based on a concluded product sharing agreement . mining permits for areas located in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine shall be granted taking into account the peculiarities established by law . users of oil-and-gas bearing and amber bearing subsoil do not need mining allotment . provision of land plots for the needs related to the use shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure established by the land legislation of Ukraine . when a land plot is provided by local councils for development of mineral deposits of local significance, the subsol is also provided for use. land plots may be leased on the rights of emphyteusis, superficies only for the period prior to the provision of the land plot to the subsoil user . land easements shall not be established on a land plot, which makes it impossible for the user to use it after receiving it for use . encumbrances on the property rights to land plot are defined by this article: valid for a period determined by the executive authority, the local government . subsoil is provided for use for the extraction of groundwater (except mineral) and the development of peat deposits . landowners and land users have the right to extract minerals of local significance and peat within the land plots provided to them with a total depth of up to two metres . subsoil users shall have the right to carry out a geological study, complex development of mineral deposits and other works . rights and obligations arise from obtaining a special permit and granting the right of use under the terms of production sharing agreements . extraction of minerals of local significance and peat with the use of special technical means shall be agreed upon . subsoil users' rights are protected by law and may be limited only in cases prescribed by the legislation of Ukraine . rights may be terminated if: 1) the use is no longer needed; 2) the established term of use has expired; 3) the activities of subsail users to whom it was provided for use have terminated; 4) the use leads to environmental pollution or harmful effects on public health . the right to use subsoil shall be terminated by the authority that has provided it for use . the legislation of Ukraine may provide for other cases of termination . landowners and land users may be deprived of right to extract minerals of local significance, peat and fresh groundwater . fee is charged for the use of subsoil within the territory of Ukraine, its continental shelf and the exclusive (maritime) economic zone . the fee is paid in the form of: 1) rent for use for mining operations, and 2) rent for the usage for purposes not related to mining . a corresponding fee is charge for the issuance of special subsail use permits . the amount of the fee for issuing special subsoil use permits shall be determined following the auction results . in case of granting a permit without holding an auction, a fee is charged . the initial selling price of the permit at the auction is calculated by the central executive authority implementing the state policy . geological study of subsoil, envisaged by national programmes, is usually conducted at the expense of funds paid by mining companies to the state budget . local councils and local executive authorities facilitate conducting works on the geological . study . state registration and maintaining record to summarise and maximise the results of these works, as well as to prevent duplication . state registration and maintaining a record of works and research related to the geological study of the subsoil is carried out by the central executive authority . procedure for disposing of geological information shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . state registration of deposits, reserves and manifestations of minerals is carried out by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of geological study and rational use of subsoil . the State Cadastre of Mineral Deposits and Manifestations includes geospatial data, metadata and services . mineral reserves of explored deposits, as well as mineral reserves additionally explored in the process of field development, are subject to examination and assessment . extracted minerals, mineral reserves that have lost their industrial significance and those lost in the extraction process are deregistered . design of mining facilities and underground structures not related to mining is carried out after prior approval in the manner prescribed by legislation . mining construction plans shall provide for the most rational and efficient use of mineral reserves . in the construction plans of objects for processing mineral raw materials the following shall be ensured . the commissioning of new and reconstructed mining facilities, mineral raw material processing facilities, as well as underground structures not related to mining is prohibited if during their design they were not observed . quotas for mining are set for the extraction of certain types of minerals . procedure for setting quotatas is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . procedures for the development of mineral deposits and mineral raw materials processing are approved designs and work plans . when processing mineral raw materials, observance of other requirements stipulated by the legislation on environmental protection must be also ensured . mine workings and wells must be brought to a state guaranteeing the safety of people, property and the environment . in case of liquidation of mining facilities, technical, geological and surveying documentation must be filled in at the moment of completion . liquidation and mothballing of mining facilities or their areas shall be carried out in coordination with the central executive authority ensuring the formation of the state policy in the field of mining supervision and industrial safety . use of subsoil for the construction and operation of underground structures and other purposes not related to mining shall be under the relevant projects . subsoil use may be restricted, temporarily prohibited (suspended) or terminated . building on mineral deposits areas of national significance is prohibited . measures are to be taken to ensure the possibility of extracting minerals from subsurface . rare geological outcrops, mineralogical formations, paleontological objects and other subsoil areas of special scientific or cultural value may be recognised as objects of the nature reserve fund . state control and supervision over the geological study, its use and protection are aimed at ensuring compliance with the established procedure . in the case of detecting rare geoological exfoliations, meteorites and other objects of interest for science and culture, the user is obliged to stop working at the relevant site . state geological control authority ensures addressing other issues on the geological study of subsoil . within its competence, the authority shall be entitled to: a) carry out national programmes of geological exploration works, geological tasks and orders; b) implement decisions on methodological support of works . state geological control authority may be entitled to other rights to prevent and eliminate violations of the rules and norms of subsoil geological study . state mining supervision authority verifies: 1) the completeness of the study of mineral deposits, mining and engineering, engineering and geological, hydrogeological and other conditions of their development . it may also terminate the activities of enterprises and organisations engaged in geological exploration without special permits . the State Mining Supervision Authority may be entitled to other rights by the legislation of Ukraine to prevent violations of the legislation on subsoil and their elimination . Disputes on the issues of subsol use shall be considered by the state geological control authority, the state mining supervision authority, local councils or by a court . plaintiffs are exempt from paying state duties in cases of collection and compensation for damages caused to the state due to violation of subsoil legislation . Disputes on the use of subsol arising with other states, as well as between foreigners, stateless persons, foreign legal entities and a subsol owner . violation of legislation entails disciplinary, administrative, civil and criminal liability in accordance with legislation of Ukraine . legislative acts of Ukraine may establish liability for other violations of subsoil legislation . enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens are obliged to reimburse the losses caused by them . foreigners and stateless persons, foreign legal entities are granted subsail use and the right to process mineral raw materials on a competitive basis .