based on the recognition of the value of arbitration (arbitration tribunal) as widely used method of settling disputes arising in international trade . this Law applies to international commercial arbitration if the place of arbitration is located within the territory of Ukraine . if an international treaty of Ukraine establishes rules other than those contained in this legislation of Ukraine, the rules of that treaty shall apply . “arbitration tribunal” means a sole arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators . “commercial” shall be interpreted broadly and encompass matters arising from any commercial relations, both contractual and non-contractual . - where a provision of this Law, except Article 28, leaves the parties free to make a decision on a certain issue, such freedom includes the right of the parties to authorise a third party, including an institution, to make such decision . a written communication is deemed to have been received if it is delivered to the addressee personally or if delivered at its place of business, habitual residence or mailing address . a party that is aware that any provision of this Law from which the parties may derogate or any requirement under the arbitration agreement has not been complied with shall have waived its right to object . no court shall intervene except where so provided in this Law . a reference in a contract to a document containing an arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement in writing . the parties are free to determine the number of arbitrators, if they have not determined such a number . a court may refer the parties to arbitration if it finds the agreement null and void . in an arbitration with three arbitrators, each party shall appoint one arbitrator . a decision on any issue taken according to clause 3 or 4 of this Article is subject to no appeal . an arbitrator shall disclose any circumstances likely to give rise to reasonable doubts as to his or her impartiality or independence . an arbitrator may be challenged only if circumstances give rise to doubts as to his or her impartiality or independence, or if he or she does not possess qualifications required by the parties . parties are free to agree on a procedure for challenging the arbitrator, subject to the provisions of clause 3 of this Article . if the challenged arbitrator withdraws from office or the other party agrees to the challenge, the arbitration tribunal shall decide on the challenge . a substitute arbitrator shall be appointed according to the rules that applied to the appointment of the arbitrator being replaced . an arbitration clause that forms part of a contract shall be interpreted as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract . a decision by the arbitration tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause . parties are free to agree on the procedure to be followed by the arbitration tribunal . power conferred on arbitration tribunal includes the power to determine the admissibility, relevance, materiality and weight of any evidence . the parties shall be treated equally and each party shall be given a full opportunity of presenting its case . the parties may submit with their statements all documents they consider to be relevant to the case . the parties shall be given sufficient advance notice of any hearing and any meeting of the arbitration tribunal for the purposes of inspection of goods, other property or documents . failure to submit documents or appear at a hearing without treating such failure in itself as an admission of the plaintiff's allegations. arbitration tribunal may appoint experts to report to it on specific issues to be determined by the arbitration tribunal . a party may request from a general court of appeal at the location of evidence assistance in examining the witness, taking evidence or its inspection at its location . any provision of the law or legal system of a given State shall be construed as directly referring to the substantive law of that State . the arbitration proceedings are terminated by the final arbitration award or by an order of the arbitration tribunal under clause 2 of this Article . if during arbitration proceedings, the parties settle the dispute, the tribunal shall terminate the proceedings and record the settlement in the form of an arbitration award on agreed terms . a party may request the arbitration tribunal to correct any error in computation, any clerical or typographical error or any errors of similar nature . an arbitration award may be set aside by the court specified in paragraph 2 of Article 6 only if: 1) the party making the application for setting aside furnishes proof that: i) the arbitrator acted in good faith; ii) he or she was entitled to receive the award in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article; . if the arbitr a party to the arbitration agreement referred to in Article 7 was under some incapacity; or the said agreement is not valid under the law to which the parties have subjected it . or it was not given proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or the arbitration proceedings or was otherwise unable to present its case . an application for setting aside may not be made after three months have elapsed from the date on which the party making that application had received the arbitration award . a party relying on an arbitration award or filing a motion for its enforcement must supply the duly certified original award or copy thereof . if the award or agreement are made in a foreign language, the party shall supply a duly certificated translation thereof into the Ukrainian language . grounds for refusing recognition or enforcement of the arbitration award may be: 1) at the request of the party against which it is invoked . if an application for setting aside or suspension of an arbitration award has been made to a court referred to in paragraph 5, subclause 1, clause 1 of this Article, the court where recognition or enforcement is sought may, if it considers it proper, adjourn its decision . this Law shall apply to the procedure for resolving disputes in arbitration provided for by the Law of Ukraine "On Financial Restructuring" the International Commercial Arbitration Court also hears disputes subject to its jurisdiction under international treaties of Ukraine . the Maritime Arbitration Commission shall settle disputes arising from contractual and other civil law relationships in the area of merchant shipping . Maritime Arbitration Commission shall also consider disputes arising in connection with the sailing of seagoing vessels and vessels of inland navigation on international rivers . the Chairman of the Commission may, at the request of a party, determine the amount and form of the security for a claim . awards not executed within the time established by it shall be enforced under the law and international treaties . the Maritime arbitration commission at the Ukrainian chamber of commerce and industry has its own seal . it reproduces its name in the Ukrainian and english languages and displays an anchor and the scales of justice .