this law defines the general legal, organisational, social and economic foundations . it regulates public relations in creating conditions for the development of physical culture and sports . kind of sport — a type of competitive activity in sports that is carried out in compliance with certain rules . sport is the activity of entities of the sphere of physical culture and sport aimed for identifying and unified comparison of people's achievements in physical, intellectual and other training . sport weapon is a firearm (except combat firearms weapon) or pneumatic weapon, small arms weapon, blank fire-only fitted weapon and edged weapon intended exclusively for hitting targets during sports events . a sport competition is an event held in order to compare the achievements of the athletes and to determine the winners . entities of the sphere of physical culture and sport are individuals or legal entities that carry out their activities for the purpose of development . physical culture has the following branches: physical education of various groups of population, mass sport, physical culture . and sport recovery — system of measures developed based on physical exercises for person's health recovery . citizens have a right to engage in physical culture and sport regardless of race, skin colour, political, religious and other beliefs, gender, ethnic and social origin, wealth status, place of residence, language or other characteristics . state policy in the sphere of physical culture is based on principles of humanistic orientation, fairness, mutual respect and gender equality . use of languages during sports events is determined by the law of Ukraine . central executive authority in charge of shaping state policy in sphere of physical culture and sport . organises and conducts Ukrainian Championships in kinds of sport recognised in Ukraine, other all-Ukrainian and international sports events . central executive authorities in charge of shaping the state policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport . ensures the development of sports medicine, carries out activities related to the prevention of doping in sport. central executive authorities ensure proper physical training of the relevant military personnel and employees, promote the development of sport . indexes of the level of development of physical culture and sport are approved by central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy . children and youth sport schools are specialised extracurricular educational institutions of sport specialisation . they ensure the development of its students' capabilities in a chosen sport, that is recognised in Ukraine . schools create necessary conditions for harmonic education, physical development, for comprehensive recovery . children and youth sport schools are financed at cost of owner (founder), from relative budget, other sources that are not forbidden by the legislation . conditions of employment for the employees are to be developed by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport . Olympic training centres are established and function according to the Provisions on Olympic training centre, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . they provide full-time educational and training camps at sports facilities equipped with appropriate infrastructure for athletes' accommodation, meals, proper medical and scientific support of their's training . student sport centres provide conditions for a combination of education in the higher education institution and training of students . physical culture and sport institutions that conduct physical culture activities . physical health centres of the population — institutions that involve socially vulnerable groups into physical culture activity . specialised state institution — Ukrainian centre of physical culture of people with disabilities . regional centres of physical culture and sport of people with disabilities can be established by authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administrations, local self-government authorities . physical culture communities are pubic associations that are established and function at enterprises, in institutions, organisations . organisations can have all-Ukrainian or local status . central executive authorities can provide financial support to all-Ukrainian physical culture and sports organisations from the funds of state budget . local state administrations and local self-government authorities can fund the activities of children and youth sports schools established by them . sports federations act by virtue of charter . status of a National sport federation of people with disabilities is granted only to one sport association for persons with disabilities in locomotions systems, eyesight, hearing and of mental and physical development . in case there is no relevant international sports federations status of the National sports fed is to be assigned by the decision of the central executive authority . public associations of physical culture and sport orientation of pupils and students act by virtue of charters according to the law . Sports Students Union of Ukraine represents Ukraine in relevant international sports organisations, at world university games, other international sports competitions among students . School Sports Federation of Ukraine is a public association of physical culture and sport orientation of pupils . it has all-Ukrainian status according to the Law and is recognised by the international school sports federation . functions defined by Article 21 of this Law include representing Ukraine in relevant international sports organisations, at world school games, other international sports competitions . national Olympic committee of Ukraine ensures development of Olympic movement in Ukraine as a part of international Olympic movement . main function of which is to ensure the introduction of relevant principles and ideals . National Olympic Committee of Ukraine can have its branches in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblasts, cities of Kyiv and sevastopol . state authorities assist in the development of material and technical assets of the National Olympic Committee of Ukraine . local self-government authorities can support activities of local branches of the national Olympic committee and provide them financial and organisational support . the goal of the Paralympic and Deaflymp movement in Ukraine is to develop physical culture and sport among people with disabilities . national sports federations of people with disabilities or their unions represent Ukraine in the international paralympic movement, in international deaflymps movement, and other international sports organisations . state authorities assist in the development of material and technical assets, can provide them with financial and organisational support . sports committee of Ukraine — public association of physical culture and sport orientation . physical culture is taught by means of conducting compulsory physical culture lessons in pre-school, general secondary, specialised, professional (technical), pre-high educational institutions . physical culture in the sphere of education aims at ensuring physical health of pupils and students . physical culture lessons must be conducted not less than three times a week in general secondary, specialised, professional (technical) education institutions . lessons of physical culture and sport rehabilitation of pupils and students with disabilities are compulsory . Article 29. Physical culture and sport activities in rural areas Physical training of servicemen is a part of general system of teaching and education of personnel of Armed Forces of Ukraine . relevant central executive authorities can establish physical culture and sports institutions, in particular, sport communities, clubs, camps, etc. physical culture training for military servicemen and employees of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, in law enforcement units, in rescue units and in other specialised services . physical culture and sport rehabilitation of people with disabilities . citizens that are admitted to preliminary detention centres and in jails are guaranteed the possibility to participate in physical culture activities . state authorities establish organisational and legal conditions for the development of children sport and ensuring initial sports education of children . reserve sport ensures the selection of talented children and youth for training in particular kind of sport . procedure of establishing regular reserve sport teams is defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . development of the sport of setting records is ensured by national sports teams and by entities from the physical culture and sports sphere . provision on national teams in recognised in Ukraine sports is developed by the central executive authority implementing the state policy . the list of members of national teams is annually approved by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport . fist teams of National teams include athletes that have highest sport results at all-Ukrainian and at international competitions . national teams of Ukraine can not be recognised kinds of sport that are dangerous or pose an extreme risk to the life and health of people or are abusive . professional sport — a commercial branch of athletic activities related to preparing and conduct of spectacular sports events at the high organisational level . recognition of kind of sport in Ukraine, their inclusion in the relevant registrar and procedure of keeping such register are defined by central executive authority . sports competition rules in kinds of sport that are recognised in Ukraine include requirements to the participants of the competition, to relevant sports facilities, special equipment and gear, conditions and procedure of defining results and competition winners . in Ukraine are awarded following sport ranks: national, first, second and young . unified sports classification of Ukraine determines sequence, terms and conditions, necessary for awarding athletes and coaches with sport ranks and sports categories . in Ukraine are awarded the following sport categories: Candidate Master of Sports of Ukraine; first category; second category; third category; first youth category . Athletes who gained prize places at international competitions and their coaches are awarded financial incentives . sport awards include chest pins that distinguish the level of qualification of an athlete or a judge and also sport medals for awarding athletes, coaches and other experts . for outstanding sports achievements and for significant contribution to the development of physical culture and sport, athletes and their coaches can be recognised by state decorations . international sports competitions are conducted by sports event organisers at the territory of Ukraine upon the decision of the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport . competitions not recognised and can not be recognised as international, including in advertisements and in information announcements . central executive authority implementing the state policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport, in accordance with the law ensures collection of administrative data and conduct of statistical observations . main tasks of statistic observations are: collection, development, generalisation and comprehensive analysis of statistical information . material and technical assets in the sphere of physical culture and sport are procured by means of construction and operation of sports facilities . land lots where sports facilities are located belong to the recreational purpose type of lands . local state administrations and local self-government authorities in accordance with the law can provide reliefs in charges for municipal services for consumed electricity . existing network of state and municipal physical culture and sport institutions can not be reduced without approval from the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy . purchase, storage, transporting and use of sport weapons, ammunition for such weapons, operation of shooting ranges, shooting lanes and stands are organised in accordance with legislation . coaches and referees undergo compulsory attestation according to the procedure defined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy . state provides coaches and other experts in the sphere of physical culture and sport with proper conditions for work, leisure, medical services . central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport, approves five-year plans for scientific and research studies . sports medicine determines the health condition, physical development and functional health conditions . antidoping measures are organised in accordance with the Law and international agreements of Ukraine. central executive authority implementing state policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport . represents interests of Ukraine in relations with other states and international organisations . concludes international agreements on the basis of established procedure .