national intellectual property office is part of the state system of the legal protection of intellectual property . invention (utility model) means the result of intellectual, creative human activity in any field of technology . secret invention (secret utility model) contains information classified as a state secret . patent means a security document confirming the priority, authorship, and rights to an invention (utility model) expert appraisal ascertains the compliance of an invention with patentability conditions (being novel, involving an inventive step, and being capable of industrial application) license means permission of the patent holder (licensor) granted to another person (licensee) to use the invention under certain conditions . Appeals Commission is the main purpose of which is to consider complaints of candidates for representatives in intellectual property cases (patent attorneys) bulletin means the official electronic bulletin of NIPO . legislation of Ukraine on the protection of rights to inventions (utility models) shall be based upon the constitution of Ukraine . NIPO is a legal entity of public law (state organisation) formed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . NIPO also performs functions of the "Receiving Office", "International Search Authority", and "international preliminary examining authorities" NIPO has the right to receive from ministries, other central and local executive bodies, and local self-government bodies free of charge . the head of NIPO may be a citizen of Ukraine who has lived in Ukraine for the last five years, fluent in the national language . head of NIPO is appointed subject to the results of an open competition conducted by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . the head of the supervisory board and his/her deputies shall be elected by members of the Supervisory Board from among them . the term of office of members of the Supervisory Board, except for the head, is two years and may be extended for no more than one term . the powers of a member of the supervisory board may be terminated prematurely at the request of the body that delegated him . NIPO's financial or consolidated financial statements are subject to audit . NIPO procures goods, works and services in the manner and using the procedures established by the Law of Ukraine "On public procurement" Appeals Chamber activities shall be based on the principles of legitimacy, impartiality, independence, transparency, reliability, collegiality . personnel review commission is NIPO's collegiate body . Appeals commission is formed to consider complaints of candidates for representatives in intellectual property cases (patent attorneys) Appeals Commission shall act on the basis of this Law and the regulation approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . foreigners, stateless persons, and foreign legal entities enjoy the same rights, provided by this Law, as the citizens and legal entities of Ukraine . legal protection in accordance with this Law does not apply to the following objects . biological processes of reproduction of plants and animals that do not belong to non-biological and microbiological processes . this provision does not affect the granting of legal protection to an invention involving elements of the human body outside the body . the following does not comply with the concept of invention (utility model), defined by Article 1 of this Law . a discovery, scientific theory, mathematical method; a diagram, rules and methods for games, competitions, auctions, physical exercises . the term of validity of intellectual property rights to an invention shall be 20 years from the date of submission of the application to the NIPO . an invention (utility model) shall be deemed novel unless it is a part of the level of technology . an invention involves an inventive step, if it is not obvious for a specialist . a utility model shall meet the conditions of patentability if novel and capable of industrial application . Inventors, who created an invention (utility model) jointly, shall enjoy equal rights to register it . an inventor shall enjoy the authorship right, which is an inalienable personal right . the employer shall give the inventor a notice in writing of a proprietary invention . if the right to register a proprietary invention belongs to the employer, the employer shall submit an application for state registration of the invention (utility model) to the NIPO within four months of the date of receipt of the notice from the inventor . the time for treating the proprietary invention not being used as confidential information by the employer or its successor shall not exceed four years . a patent may be enjoyed by a successor of the inventor or that of the employer respectively . if an invention (utility model) has been created by two or more inventors independently on one another, the right for state registration shall be enjoyed by the applicant . applications submitted in electronic form shall be subject to electronic record keeping . the information contained in the application shall be declared state secret . an application shall be drawn up in Ukrainian and contain: an application for state registration of the invention (utility model); a description . an inventor shall have the right to require his/her not being mentioned as an inventor in any publication of the NIPO, in particular, in the information about the application . the application submission date shall be the date of the receipt by the NIPO of materials . the procedure for state registration of an invention (utility model) on the basis of an international application . international application shall be deemed terminated in Ukraine if conditions are not met . a request for renewal of the international application in Ukraine may be submitted within 2 months from the date of termination of the circumstances . the applicant shall perform all actions on the application provided by this Law, which were to be performed on that date . if the requirements of Part 4 of this Article have not been met, the applicant may be notified of the refusal to satisfy the request . if necessary, the NIPO may require translation of the preliminary application into Ukrainian . if translation is not received by the stated time, the right of priority of the application shall be deemed lost . priority shall cover only those features of the invention (utility model) which are stated in the application . the priority of the invention (utility model) may be established on the date of receipt by the NIPO of additional materials drawn up in accordance with Part 7 of Article 16 of this Law . the expert appraisal of the application consists of preliminary appraisal, formal appraisal, and, on the application for a patent for an invention, qualification appraisal . the applicant may introduce changes to the application associated with change of the person of the applicant . these corrections and changes are taken into account if received by the NIPO not later than the reception by it of a document on payment of the state fee for the registration of an invention (utility model) additional materials in the part which extend beyond the essence of the invention (utility model) disclosed in the submitted application are ignored at the expert appraisal of the application . in case of availability of such data in the application, the application materials shall be sent to the relevant State Expert . the State Expert shall specify the people that may access the information . if materials of the application meet the requirements of Article 13 of this Law, a notification of this is immediately sent to the applicant . if there is a reference to a drawing in materials of an application which meets requirements of this law, it is sent with a proposal, on his/her choice, either to send the drawing or to exclude it in the application . if within two months after the commission of actions provided for in Part 3, Article 5 of this Law, no notification of the appointment of a representative and address for correspondence has been received, the application for which such action was committed shall be deemed withdrawn . the said time frame may be extended but not more than by two months if a corresponding application is submitted before its expiry . the applicant is to indicate in the answer the invention (utility model) for which the appraisal of the application should be carried out . if the requirement of unity, as proposed by the NIPO, is not observed, the expert appraisal is carried out for the invention which is the first mentioned in its formula . within six months of publication of the information on the application for an invention, any person may file a reasoned objection to the application . the applicant may notify the NIPO of his/her attitude to the objection within two months of its receipt . a fee is levied for the submission of such objections . after publication of information on the application for the invention, any person may submit comments on the compliance of the claimed invention with the conditions of legal protection . the applicant may submit the said application and pay the fee for the qualification expert appraisal within 3 years of the application submission date . the applicant does not participate in resolving issues related to the application . if there is reason to believe that the claimed invention does not meet the conditions of patentability, the NIPO sends an opinion . the applicant has the right to make changes to the invention formula . the applicant may divide the application into two or more applications . expert appraisal of the divisional application shall be carried out in accordance with Article 16 of this Law . if the priority is claimed, then of the date of its priority, or immediately after the formal expert appraisal of the application for an invention . the information on an application for state registration of an invention published in accordance with Part 16 of Article 16 hereof shall provide the applicant with temporary legal protection . temporary legal protection under an international application shall start as from the date of its publication by the NIPO on the terms and conditions set forth in Part 2 of this Article . the procedure for Register maintenance and a list of information contained in the Register shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . the term of receipt of the document on payment of the state fee for registration of an invention (utility model) is extended if a corresponding request is submitted and the fee for its submission is paid before the expiry of this period . any person has the right to familiarise himself/herself with the information entered in the Register . an applicant may appeal against a decision of the NIPO on an application to the Appeals Chamber as well as to the court within two months from the date of receiving of the decision . the right to appeal is lost in the event of payment of the state fee for the registration of an invention (utility model) a fee is levied for the submission of such objection . a patent shall be issued by the NIPO within one month upon state registration of an invention . the form of the patent and the contents of the information provided therein shall be specified by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . a fee is levied for granting a duplicate of the patent . a holder of a patent for a secret invention (utility model) shall have the right to declassify the invention or change the secrecy classification . the holder of a patent for an invention has the right to extend the validity of intellectual property rights to such invention (additional protection) additional protection certificate is issued at the request of the patent holder; a fee is levied for the submission of such request . rights to additional protection are limited by the product and by its use as a medicinal product, animal protection product, plant protection product . request for additional protection must be received by the NIPO within 6 months from the date of publication of the information on state registration of the invention . application shall be accompanied by documents confirming the right of the patent holder to additional protection . the rights and obligations of the holder of the additional protection certificate shall be the same as the rights of the respective patent . a person who intends to manufacture a product that uses a patented invention during the period of additional protection is obliged to affix the information mark "UA Export" for the manufacture of the product . for maintaining the validity of the additional protection certificate for each full or incomplete year of its validity, a fee shall be paid . the patent holder shall have the right to use the invention (utility model) at his/her discretion, unless such use infringes upon rights of other patent holders . manufacture, application, offering for sale, including via the internet, sale, importation, introduction in the business turnover, or storage of a product shall be considered use of an invention . a method protected by the patent shall be declared applied, if each feature included in an independent item of the formula of the invention is used . the burden of proving that the method of making the product identical to that produced by the method protected by the patent differs from the latter rests with the person in respect of whom there are reasonable grounds to believe that he/she infringes the rights of the patent holder . the right of the holder of a patent for a secret invention (secret utility model) shall be limited by the Law of Ukraine On State Secrets . the patent confers upon its holder the exclusive property right to prevent and prohibit other persons from using the invention (utility model) without his/her consent . as for a secret invention (secret utility model), such cession shall be effected only in concurrence with the State Expert . a person desirous of making use of such permit shall be obliged to conclude a contract with the holder of the patent or the declarative patent . a patent holder shall pay appropriate fees for maintaining the validity of the intellectual property rights to an invention (utility model) a court of law shall pass a decision to grant the permit to the interested person to use the invention (utility model) the court shall state the scope of the application, the term of validity of the permit . a patent holder may grant a permit (licence) for the use of an invention to a holder of a later patent . a holder of the patent for a secret invention (secret utility model) may grant a licence for using his/her invention (utility model) only to a person having the right of access to such invention obtained from the State Expert . a right of prior use may be transferred or passed on to another person only together with the enterprise or the part of the enterprise where the solution identical to the claimed invention was used . a product manufactured using the patented invention (utility model) shall be deemed to have been acquired without infringing upon rights of the patent holder . the use of an invention for commercial purposes by any person, which could not know that such product has been manufactured or introduced in the turnover with infringement upon rights resulting from the state registration . a patent holder may waive the rights resulting from state registration of the invention (utility model) a fee is levied for the expert appraisal for compliance with the requirements of this Article and Article 7 of this Law . the form of the application and the procedure for its consideration are determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . no full or partial waiver of rights resulting from state registration of the invention (utility model) without prior notice to a person vested with the right to use the invention under a licence agreement registered in the NIPO shall be allowed . if the deadline for payment of the fee for maintaining the validity of intellectual property rights to the invention is missed, the patent applicant's rights are restored . rights to an invention (utility model) may be declared by a court order invalid in full or in part . a person may submit to the Appeals Chamber a substantiated application for recognition of the rights to an invention (utility model) as invalid in full or in part . the application may be submitted through an intellectual property representative (patent attorney) acting on the basis of a power of attorney . changes to an independent clause of the formula may be made by modifying the features of such a clause in the formula . the Appeals Chamber shall not verify the accuracy of the evidence provided . each party shall prove the circumstances to which it refers as the basis of its claims or objections . the rights to an invention (utility model) declared invalid shall be deemed not to have entered into force on the day following the day of state registration . any person may submit to the NIPO a motivated request for examination of a utility model for compliance with the conditions of patentability . opinion prepared by NIPO on conformity of the utility model to the conditions is sent to the person who filed the application and to the patent holder . encroachment upon rights envisaged by Article 28 hereof shall be deemed to constitute the infringement upon the rights of the holder the amount and procedure of payment of the state fee for the registration of inventions (utility models) are defined by the legislation . receipts received from the payment of state duty for registration are credited to the budgets in the manner prescribed by the Budget Code of Ukraine . the receipts are used solely for the development and functioning of state system of legal protection of intellectual property . applications for patents of Ukraine for inventions with a validity period of five years without expert appraisal of the content shall be treated by the NIPO as declarative patents . existing utility model patents shall be equated in terms of legal regime, including their term of validity . upon this Law’s coming into force, the following acts shall become null and void . verkhovna rada of Ukraine of 23 december 1993 "on enforcing the law of Ukraine" on protection of rights to inventions and utility models . president of Ukraine l. kravchuk city of kyiv 15 dec. 1993 no. 3687-xii .