this Law shall regulate relations arising in connection with the acquisition and use of rights to trademarks in Ukraine . national intellectual property office is part of the state system of the legal protection of intellectual property . trademarks are signs according to which goods and services of some persons are distinguished from those of others . priority of an application is the priority in submitting the application . the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property, NIPO and a system of scientific, educational, informational, and other state enterprises, institutions, organisations of relevant specialisation that are managed by NIPO . attestation commission is the main purpose of which is to undertake a performance review of persons who have shown their intention to acquire the right to engage in the activities of a representative in intellectual property cases (patent attorney) Appeals Commission is the official electronic bulletin of NIPO; ensuring legal regulation in the field of protection of rights to trademarks for goods and services . development of proposals to improve legislation in field of intellectual property legal protection . ensuring fulfilment of obligations arising from Ukraine's membership in international organisations . NIPO shall have the right to receive from ministries, other central and local executive bodies, and local self-government bodies the information, documents, and materials necessary to perform the powers and functions assigned to it free of charge . it shall also conduct scientific research, engage experts and consultants to prepare recommendations on matters falling within its competence . the head of NIPO may be a citizen of Ukraine who has lived in Ukraine for the last five years . he/she must have a university degree in law and/or intellectual property . the head may not be deprived of the right to bring about activities related to state functions . head of supervisory board and his/her deputies shall be elected by members of the Supervisory Board from among them . powers include supervision of financial and economic activities of NIPO, budget execution, use of funds generated from the proceeds of collecting fees for actions related to the protection of intellectual property rights . a member of the supervisory board whose powers have been terminated before maturity shall be obliged to delegate a new representative . the form of work of the Supervisory Board is a meeting, based on the results of which the protocol is drawn up . main principles for considering objections and applications by the Appeals Chamber shall be the rule of law, legitimacy, equality of participants . the Attestation Commission shall consist of NIPO’s employees, the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. Appeals Commission is a NIPO collegiate body, which is formed to consider complaints . foreigners and stateless persons shall have the same rights and obligations as persons of Ukraine . if an international treaty of Ukraine establishes rules other than those provided for by the legislation of Ukraine on trademarks, the rules of the treaty shall apply . legal protection shall be granted to a trademark that is not contrary to the public order . signs may be words, letters, numerals, figurative elements, colours, the shape of goods or their packaging, sounds . names or pseudonyms of persons who held leading positions in the communist party, other union or autonomous Soviet republics, shall not be the subject of trademark . acquisition of rights to a trademark that has the international registration or is recognised to be well known in Ukraine, shall not require certification . legal protection shall not be granted for signs that represent or imitate: state emblems, flags and other state symbols (emblems); full or abbreviated official names of states or international two-letter codes of states . the signs specified in paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 7 and 8 of this clause may be included in a trademark as non-protected elements in the event that they are not dominative in the image of the trademark . signs shall not be registered as trademarks when as of the date of submitting an application or, if the priority is claimed, they are identical or similar to such an extent that they may be confused . trademarks that were earlier registered or submitted for the registration in Ukraine in the name of another person for identical or related goods and services . trademarks of other persons if such trademarks are protected without registration within the territory of Ukraine on the basis of international treaties of Ukraine . sign specified in paragraphs 2 to 5 and 7, clause 3 of Article 6 may be registered as trademarks if the consent is given by a certificate holder of the earlier registered trademark or the other earlier acquired right . applications submitted in electronic form shall be subject to electronic record keeping in accordance with the legislation in the field of electronic documents . application shall be drawn up and submitted following the rules established by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . fee shall be determined taking into account the number of applicants and Nice Classification classes covering goods and services indicated in the application . applicant willing to use the priority right, during three months from the date of submitting an application to NIPO, shall submit a priority request . priority right of the application shall be lost if specified materials are not submitted in time . expert appraisal of an application consists of the formal expert appraisal and qualification expert appraisal (substantive expert appraisal) a request for legal protection to a trademark under the international registration in Ukraine shall be sent to the International Bureau of WIPO . the applicant has the right to request copies of the materials, which were opposed to the relevant application . the applicant shall have the right to submit additional materials to request from the NIPO copies of materials presented against the application . additional materials shall be submitted by the applicant within 2 months from the date of receipt by him of the notification or conclusion of the expert appraisal . any person shall have the right to submit a reasonable objection of the application or validity of the international registration in Ukraine to NIPO . requirements for objections shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. information on the application determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property shall be published in the Bulletin within five business days from the date of sending such notification . the composition of information subject to publication shall include the following data (if available): application number, date of submitting an application, exhibition priority date, number of the preliminary application under the Paris Convention . application number, date of submitting an application, exhibition priority date . information on the international registration of a trademark shall be published in the Bulletin . if application materials fail to meet the requirements of Article 8 of this Law, a notification thereof shall be sent to the applicant . if the requirements of clause 8, Article 7 of this Law are violated, the application shall be considered withdrawn, and the applicant shall be notified thereof . if defects relate to the grouping of goods and services, a notification shall be sent to the applicant with proposals to correct defects . if based on the outcomes of such consideration NIPO makes a decision on registration of a trademark for all goods and services specified in the application . the applicant shall have the right to withdraw the application at any time before the date of paying the state duty for certificate issuance . the applicant shall carry out the division of the application by submitting a request for making relevant changes in the application and a divisional application . information on certificate issuance determined under the specified procedure shall be published in the Bulletin . an applicant shall pay the specified duty and fee after receiving the decision on registration of a trademark . NIPO shall issue a certificate within a month after the state registration of a trademark . the form of the certificate and the content of the information provided therein shall be specified by the central executive authority in charge of forming and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property . a person submitting an objection in accordance with clause 8 of Article 10 of this Law, may appeal the NIPO decision to the Appeals Chamber within two months from the date of receipt of a copy of the decision . the applicant shall have the right to submit a substantiated response to the objection . in the event of payment of the state duty for issuing a certificate, the right of appeal shall be deprived . an objection against the NIPO decision on the application shall be considered within two months . the Appeals Chamber shall make a reasonable decision that is approved by the order of NIPO . if the objection is satisfied in full or in part, the fee for submission of the objection shall be refunded . a trademark shall be considered to be used if it was applied in the form of the registered trademark . a certificate holder shall have the exclusive right to prohibit other persons from using without his consent: a sign that is identical with the trademark with respect to the goods and services listed in the certificate . exclusive right of a certificate holder to prohibit other persons to use the registered trademark without his consent shall not apply to exercising any right acquired before the application submission date . the use of signs, in the course of trade, which are related to the type, quality, quantity, purpose, value, geographical origin, time of production of goods or provision of services shall not be prohibited . licence agreement shall contain, in particular, information about the ways of using the trademark, the territory and term for which the use of it is allowed . a certificate holder that carries out re-selling activities shall have the right to use his own trademark alongside with the trademark of the specified persons . certificate holder may at any time renounce the certificate in whole or in part . renunciation shall be effective from the date of publishing the relevant information in the Bulletin . certificate shall be terminated on the first day of the certificate's validity period if the respective fee has not paid . the certificate or international registration in Ukraine may be terminated in whole or in part . the use of the trademark by the certificate holder shall be also considered to be the use by another person . a certificate may be invalidated if the registered trademark does not meet the requirements for granting legal protection . if a certificate was invalidated and the court established that the application had been submitted with violation of other person's rights, the court may decide on the compensation of losses by the certificate holder . any encroachment on the rights of a certifcate holder provided for by Article16 of this Law, including actions that shall be agreed with the certificate-holder but are carried out without his consent, shall be considered to be the infringement of the rights . only the former certificate holder shall have the right to re-register a trademark within two years after termination of the certificate . the amount of and procedure for paying the state duty for issuing certificates to trademarks shall be determined according to the legislation . protection of rights to a well-known trademark shall be carried out according to Article 6bis of the Paris Convention and this Law . trademark may be recognised as well known regardless of its registration in Ukraine . degree of notability and recognition of trademark in relevant public sector .