this Law shall govern the proprietary and personal non-proprietary relations arising in connection with the acquisition, exercise and protection of the rights to plant varieties . definitions: variety author – an individual who discovered or invented and improved the variety; parent components – components of the first-generation hybrid (line, hybrid) that were used to create it . a plant variety is an individual group of plants (clone, line, first-generation hybrid, population) regardless of whether it satisfies the conditions of legal protection . this Law shall apply to varieties of all genus and species of plants . provisions of this Law on determining the suitability of a variety for dissemination in Ukraine shall not apply to plant varieties used for decorative purposes . the central executive authority shall organise and carry out state supervision (oversight) in terms of protecting the rights to plant varieties . the Competent Authority shall ensure the development of scientific, material and technical potential in the field of protection of rights . Regulatory Authority shall conduct primary seed production by owners of intellectual property rights and supporters of plant varieties. the Competent Authority may authorise enterprises, institutions, organisations to exercise certain powers in the field of protection of rights to plant varieties under this Law . it may, for example, issue patents for plant varieties, certificates of authorship and certificates of state registration of plant varieties . the Competent Authority shall issue an organisational and administrative act . expert institutions shall regularly report on the results of their activities . if violations are detected based on the audit results, the competent authority shall set a time limit to remove the violations . a variety shall be deemed eligible to acquire intellectual property right if it is new, distinctive, homogeneous, and stable by the manifestation of characteristics generated by a particular genotype or combination of genotypes . rights to varieties shall be acquired to varieties corresponding to criteria defined by this Law . the novelty of the variety shall not be lost if any of its material has been distributed . a variety satisfies the requirement of distinctiveness if it clearly differs in its characteristics from any other variety that is well-known before the date on which the application is deemed to have been filed . the state registration of a variety is carried out if the variety is distinctive, homogeneous and stable if it has been given a name . the name of the variety shall not: a) contravene the principles of humanity and morality; b) consist only of numbers, except in cases where this corresponds to established practice for naming varieties . a variety in Ukraine and another State Party shall be offered under the same name . the criteria for prohibiting the dissemination of varieties in Ukraine shall be devised by the Competent Authority and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . right to file an application for a plant variety shall belong to the variety author . the author of a variety shall own the copyright, which shall be personal moral rights . the employer (customer) may transfer the right to apply for a plant variety on the basis of law or agreement. breeder must submit an application for a variety within 60 days from the date of receipt of the notification from the author of the variety . if an employer does not comply with the requirements specified in part 3 of this Article then the right to file an application and obtain a patent passes to the author . an application for a variety shall be filed with the Competent Authority by a person entitled to do so, under Articles 16, 17 and 18 of this Law . planting material samples of the application object shall be attached to the application in the quantity and quality necessary for its substantive examination and storage . author of the variety has a right to request not to be mentioned as the author in any kind of publication relating to the application or patent . the name and residence address of the author(s) may not be indicated in the application . application filing date shall be the date of receipt by the Competent Authority of the application materials . applicant may claim priority on the date of submission of a preliminary application for the same variety to the Competent Authority of another State Party . if the previous application was valid on the filing date, the term is extended until the first following working day . application materials shall be considered confidential and shall be kept secret . access of third parties to the application materials during this period is prohibited . applicant shall be entitled to withdraw an application at any time until the date when the applicant receives a decision on the registration of a variety . an applicant shall have the right on his/her own initiative to make changes and clarifications to the application, specified in the technical form of the variety. the first notification on the results of the formal examination shall be sent by the Competent Authority to the applicant no later than three months from the date of receipt of the application materials . the applicant shall remove the specified source of incompatibility within two months of the receipt of expert opinion . a deadline missed for justifiable reasons shall be renewed, provided that the applicant submits a motion within 12 months from the date of its expiry and payment of the relevant fee . the applicant shall have the right to apply to the Competent Authority or expert institution with a request to postpone the start of the substantive examination . Article 28. Examination of the proposed variety name shall be carried out to determine the conformity of this name to the requirements established by Article 13 of this Law . the applicant shall have the right to indicate the breeding code as the name of the variety . the applicant shall inform the Competent Authority of his/her position within three months of the date of the receipt of such expert opinion, objections or comments raised . the applicant may refute them and leave the proposed name of the variety unchanged or suggest another variety name . the Competent Authority shall determine the list of genus and species which varieties shall be examined on suitability for dissemination . determination of the suitability of a variety for dissemination shall be performed under Article 14 of this Law . import of specimens of the variety intended for examination into Ukraine shall be carried out based on a confirmation from the competent authority . a person may submit to the Competent Authority a reasoned objection to the registration of a variety . the applicant may refute the objection, and leave the application unchanged, amend it or withdraw it . a decision on the emergence of rights to the variety shall be notified to the applicant . information on a variety entered in the Register of Applications entitles the applicant to temporary legal protection from the date of filing the application . state registration of intellectual property rights to a plant variety shall be carried out based on the decision on the state registration . information established by this Law and the Regulation on the Register on Plant Varieties of Ukraine shall be entered into the Register . the Register of Plant Varieties of Ukraine shall contain a set of official information on the state registration of intellectual property rights to the dissemination of plant varieties . information shall, in particular, include an indication of the botanical taxon (in Latin and Ukrainian); b) name of the variety . the information entered in the registers shall be opened to the public. author of a variety shall have the right, upon request, to obtain a certificate of authorship for a plant variety . a person creating the variety shall be recognised as the author of the variety, from the date of the state registration of rights to the variety. if there is more than one author, the certificate for authorship shall be issued to each author . certified copies of certificates of state registration for varieties of genus and species not included in the list are examined for compliance with the criteria . a person recognised as the author of a variety shall be entitled to prevent other persons from acquiring and distorting the authorship . the right to the dissemination of varieties in Ukraine shall arise from the date of the decision on state registration of intellectual property rights to dissemination of the variety . varieties that are not included in the Register of Plant Varieties of Ukraine shall be prohibited from dissemination in Ukraine unless otherwise provided by law. no one shall, without the permission of the patent owner, carry out the following actions in relation to the planting material of the variety . subject to provisions of Article 44 of this Law, actions specified in paragraphs “a” – “g” of this Article in respect of harvested variety material, obtained as a result of use without permission, shall require permission . a variety shall be considered to be substantially derived from another (original variety) if it is at least obviously distinguished from the original variety, excluding the origin differences . a plant variety may be the subject of a pledge and used in joint activities . the patent owner has the right to disseminate the variety and authorise or prohibit the dissemination of the variety to other persons . he/she may grant permission (licence) for the use of variety to any person based on a licence agreement . under the licence agreement, the licensee undertakes to make payments to the licenser stipulated by the agreement and perform other actions provided by the licence. a patent owner has the right to submit to the Competent Authority for official publication a statement of willingness to grant authorisation to any person to use the variety (open license) if no individual has declared to the owner of a variety the intentions regarding the use of the variety, the owner may submit a written request to withdraw his/her statement . a licence agreement and the agreement on the transfer of intellectual property rights to a plant variety shall be considered valid if they are concluded in writing . the expiration of intellectual property rights to a plant variety becomes a public domain . rights cease to be valid from the first day of the year for which the fee has not been paid . the right to the dissemination of the variety shall be restored from the day following the entry of relevant information in the Register of Varieties . a compulsory licence for the use of a variety shall provide the person obtaining it with the right to use the variety, without the permission of the owner of the variety . a licence may be granted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and by the court . use of a variety without the consent (authorisation) of the patent owner shall not be recognised as an infringement of intellectual property rights to the plant variety . plant variety rights shall not apply to actions with respect to any material of its variety or variety to which the provisions of part 3 of Article 39 of this Law apply . any person shall have the right to propagate, on his/her own farm, the product of the harvest obtained by cultivating a protected variety, provided that the variety belongs to one of the following botanical genus the requirements for respecting the legitimate interests of the patent owner shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine . a small farm owner shall mean the owner of the farm that grows the harvested material in an area not exceeding the area required for the production of 92 tonnes of grain . the size of land plots shall not be limited. the collected material can be brought to sowing conditions for the purpose of reproduction . farm owners using a variety shall pay the patent owner a remuneration, according to a mutual agreement, which shall be lower than that paid according to an agreement for the propagation of the same variety in the same region . TERMINATION OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS TO A PLANT VARIETY AND RECOGNITION THEREOF AS INVALID Article 50. Early Termination of Intellectual Property Rights to a Plant Variety 1. The validity of intellectual property rights to the dissemination of a plant variety shall be terminated in case of refusal of the owner to maintain the variety in the Register of Plant Varieties of Ukraine. the patent owner shall have the right to waive the intellectual property rights to a plant variety and a patent certifying those rights by submitting written notification to the Competent Authority . in case of non-payment of the fee for maintaining the validity of the right in the Register of Plant Varieties of Ukraine under provisions of Article 42 of this Law . waiver of intellectual property rights to a plant variety and a patent by one of the patent owners shall not lead to the termination of the rights and the patent . the rights shall remain the property of other co-owners of the variety . Section VI PROTECTION OF THE RIGHTS TO A VARIETY. a person whose right to a variety has been infringed may apply to the court for the protection of such right . court shall consider disputes on: a) the emergence of rights to the variety and their state registration; b) the varieties created in course of performance of professional duties or at the request of an employer . court may decide to impose a fine on the violator in the amount of 10 per cent of the amount awarded by the court in favour of the plaintiff . funds received from the payment of the State duty provided by this Law shall be included in the State budget of Ukraine . author of highly effective and widely disseminated varieties in Ukraine may be awarded the honorary title of "Honoured Breeder of Ukraine" patents of Ukraine for plant varieties issued under the legislation effective prior to the entry into force of this Law shall have equal legal status with the patents granted pursuant to this Law . within five years of the day when this Law enters into force, the genus and species of plant varieties to which the right of the variety owner extends may be restricted . bringing the laws of Ukraine in line with this Law; bringing regulatory acts in line . other laws and regulations shall be implemented insofar as they do not contravene this Law . amendments to the Decree of the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine of 21 January 1993 No. 7-93 "On state duty"