constitution of Ukraine recognises the right to freedom of conscience for citizens of Ukraine . the right includes the freedom to have, adopt and change the religion or beliefs out of preference . no coercion shall be allowed when a citizen determines his/her attitude to religion, decides to exercise or not exercise religion . parents or persons in loco parentis shall have the right to raise their children according to their own beliefs and attitudes towards religion . citizens of Ukraine shall be equal before the law and shall have equal rights in all fields of economic, political, social and cultural life . the implementation of state policy on religion and the Church shall belong solely to the competence of Ukraine . ministers shall have the right to participate in political life on equal terms with all citizens . a religious organisation shall not interfere in the activities of other religious organisations . access to the various types and levels of education shall be granted to citizens regardless of their attitude towards religion . religious organisations in Ukraine shall include religious communities, offices and centres, monasteries, religious brotherhoods, missionary societies (missions) religious associations shall be represented by their centres (directorates) this Law shall not apply to other organisations formed on religious grounds . a religious community shall admit new members and expel existing members . religious organisations the guidance centres of which are located outside Ukraine may be guided in their activities by the instructions of these centres . religious directorates and centres shall have the right to establish monasteries, religious brotherhoods, missionary societies . citizens enrolled in religious educational establishments shall enjoy the rights and benefits regarding the deferred service, taxation . charter (regulations) of a religious organisation shall not contradict the current legislation . documents that define religious activities and solve other internal issues shall not be subject to registration in the government authorities . religious organisations (associations) that belong to the structure (is a part) of religious organisation (association) the guiding centre (directorate) of which is located outside Ukraine shall undertake to mention in its full name specified in its charter . article 12 has been supplemented with part 7 under law no. 2662-V charter (regulations) of a foreign religious organisation (association) the guiding centre (directorate) of which is located outside Ukraine, contains references that a religious organisation operating in Ukraine belongs to its structure . religious organisation shall be recognised as a legal entity from the day of its state registration . Article 14 has been supplemented with a new part under Law No. 2673-VIII of 17 January 2019 the following documents shall be submitted to the charter registration authority . a duly certified copy of the minutes (or an extract therefrom) of the general meeting of the religious community on making amendments . religious centres, directorates, monasteries, religious brotherhoods, missions and religious educational establishments shall submit the charter (regulations) for registration to the central executive authority that implements the state policy in the field of religion . Article 14 has been supplemented with a new part under Law No. 2673-VIII of 17 January 2019 . in order to register the charter (regulations) of a monastery, religious brotherhood, missionary society (mission) or religious educational establishment, an application signed by the head (other authorised person) of the respective religious organisation . charter (regulations) of a monastery, religious brotherhood, missionary society (mission) or religious educational establishment shall be accompanied by duly certified copies . decision on establishment (foundation) of religious organisation shall be adopted in the manner prescribed by the charter of the religious centre (directorate) Article 14 has been supplemented with a new part under Law No. 2673-VIII of 17 January 2019 . if a religious organisation fails to rectify the identified deficiencies within the established period, all documents received by the central executive authority that implements the state policy in the field of religion, shall be returned . amendments to charters (regulations) of religious organisations shall be subject to registration . religious organisation representatives may participate in consideration of the registration in a consultative capacity . a religious organisation may be terminated due to its reorganisation (division, merger, affiliation) or liquidation . Article 16 has been supplemented with part 4 under Law No. 3795-12 of 23 December 1993 The court shall consider the case on termination of a religious organisation . religious organisations shall be entitled to use for their needs buildings and property provided to them on a contractual basis . religious organisations shall use land plots in the manner prescribed by the Land Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine . agreements for the provision of religious and other buildings and property for use by religious organisations may be dissolved or terminated . decisions of state authorities on ownership and use of religious buildings may be appealed against in court . agreement for permanent use of the religious building of St. Andrew's Church of the National Sanctuary "Sophia of Kyiv" shall contain the following essential terms . religious organisations shall own, use and dispose of property belonging to them on the right of ownership . financial and property donations, as well as other income of religious organisations, shall not be taxable . religious organisations shall not have the right to impose compulsory taxation on believers . construction of religious and other buildings by religious organisations must be carried out in the manner established by the legislation in force for civil facilities . in case of termination of a religious organisation due to violation of this Law and other legislative acts of Ukraine, the property in its ownership, except for religious property, may be transferred to the state ownership free of charge . religious organisations shall have the right to find and maintain freely accessible places of worship or religious assemblies . religious organisations shall have the right to produce, export, import and distribute religious objects, religious literature and other religious informational materials . religious organisations may establish societies, brotherhoods, associations, and other unions of citizens to conduct charity, study and disseminate religious literature . citizens working in religious organisations and at enterprises or institutions established by religious organisations shall be subject to labour legislation, compulsory state social insurance and taxation . religious organisations, their enterprises and institutions shall pay insurance contributions to the Compulsory State Social Insurance Fund of Ukraine in case of unemployment . article 29. State control over observance of the legislation on freedom of conscience and religious organisations Article 29 as revised by Law No. 5461-VI of 16 October 2012 Article 30. central executive authorities that form and implement the state policy in the field of religion shall ensure the implementation of state policy on religion and the Church . if an international treaty to which Ukraine is a party establishes other rules than those contained in the legislation on freedom of conscience and religious organisations shall apply .