The Law of Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Ukrainian government has announced a ban on charges and fines imposed on those registered and permanently resettled in the territory where the anti-terrorist operation was conducted. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has issued an order to ban the immediate execution of the anti-terrorist operation. Here is a guide to the issue. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published the rules on the dissolution of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs operating in territory of the anti-terrorist operation. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has signed a law granting the powers to manage property owned by temporarily displaced higher education institutions. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered the immediate relocation of temporarily displaced higher education institutions and scientific institutions. The government has published a raft of changes to the law which makes it easier for those affected by the coronavirus pandemic to issue certificates confirming work experience and information about training periods. This is the full text of the Law of Ukraine “On Mortgage” which will be suspended until the end of this year. The government of Ukraine has approved the lifting of the law on mortgages, which could mean a temporary eviction of residents from residential buildings and premises transferred to real estate. The Constitution of Ukraine has been published by the Ministry of Justice. Here is the full text of the constitution. The citizenship of Ukraine's citizens who have moved from the area where the anti-terrorist operation is being conducted is to be registered. The Law of Ukraine on trade and customs in the country has come into force. The Commerce and Industry Authority of Ukraine has filed an application to issue a certificate on force majeure circumstances. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a raft of amendments to the new law which includes the terms of the law: The National Bank of Ukraine has published a draft law which aims to ensure the security and safety of financial resources of business entities operating in the territory of the anti-terrorist operation.