The Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority has signed a law to regulate the activities of its seaports. The Isle of Man's seaports have been given a raft of changes to the structure of the harbour, which includes: The Constitutional Authority of Ukraine has published a new law which aims to regulate the activities of seaports in the country. The President of Ukraine, Petro Poroshenko, has signed a law which aims to regulate the activities of the executive authorities in the field of seaport operation. Here is the full text of this law. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed list of key steps to protecting the seaports of the country. The Ukrainian government has approved the introduction of the register of Seaports of Ukraine. Here is a guide to how it will work. The government of Ukraine has published a draft strategy for the port industry development. Here are the key points. The Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority has published a guide to seaport boundaries. Here is the guide. The Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority has issued a guide to seaport terms and conditions which will be published on the official website. The border crossing points of Ukraine will be opened on the territory of seaports and marine terminals, according to the government's latest announcement. The Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority and business entities operating in the seaport have agreed to establish border and customs control zones. The Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority has announced a raft of changes to its rules on operation in seaports. Here are the key points. The government of Ukraine has published a list of key powers in its regulation of the operation in seaports. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of key powers which could include: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of key steps towards the establishment of the seaports register. The Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority has been appointed and dismissed by the government. Here is the full list of the key regulations on the seaport authority. The government of Ukraine has published a list of key rules for vessels operating at the seaport and port city. The Ukrainian Seaports Authority has published its latest rules on the economy at the seaport. Here is a summary of the legislation. The Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority has appointed a new council to establish the structure of the seaport. The government has published a raft of rules on maritime and river transport in the wake of the collapse of Ukraine's seaports. The Ukrainian government has published the rules and conditions of the country's maritime and river transport system. The law on property at Seaports in Ukraine has come into force. Here is a guide to the law. 1. Private partners and concessions The Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority has signed a law on land in seaports, including the right of private ownership. The privatisation of seaport infrastructure facilities, other than strategic ones, in the manner prescribed by law, could be subject to the terms of the sale and sale of land plots owned by individuals or legal entities. The government of Ukraine has published a law which allows business entities to buy out state-owned port infrastructure facilities within the seaport. The Ukrainian government has published a law to compensate business entities in state-owned strategic port infrastructure facilities. Here is the full text of the law. The latest amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine have been published: The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Ministry of Defence. Here is the full text of the Article. The government of Ukraine has approved the rules for the seaport operating in the country. President Viktor Yanukovych has ordered the appointment and dismissation of seaport harbour masters in the wake of a parliamentary vote. The Isle of Man’s maritime and river transport safety laws have been published by the government. Here is the full text of the latest chapter. The amendments to the Isle of Man's maritime and river transport laws have been published. A further amendment to the Isle of Man's Seaport Agreement has been published. The latest amendments to the Ukrainian constitutional law have been published. The latest amendments to the Ukrainian maritime and river transport code have been published by the government. The latest sections of the Ukrainian Constitution have been published: The law on the alienation of private land plots and other immovable property located thereon for public needs or for the Reasons of Public Necessity has come into effect. The Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers has signed a law on the use of seaport infrastructure facilities. Here is the full text of the law. 1. The Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority has signed a law to ensure the creation and adoption of mandatory regulations in the field of seaports.