The Constitution of Ukraine and customs laws issued by the Cabinet of Ministers and the central executive authority have been published. The government of Ukraine has announced that it will publish the full wording of the country's customs laws. Here is a guide to the law and regulations issued by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a summary of the code. The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the code. The rules of the customs authorities of Ukraine have been published following the publication of a new law which includes: 1) “freight of an express carrier” The law of Ukraine has been published following a series of changes to the law. Here are some of the key points being considered. The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full list of the key rules and conditions being considered. These are some of the key points in the Code of Conduct of Ukraine: Following the introduction of the customs laws in Ukraine, the government has published a list of key rules which could mean the use of these regulations. The rules and regulations of the customs border between Ukraine and the country have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a summary of what they mean. The terms and conditions of Ukraine’s customs policy have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a list of key laws which could mean: The rules of the customs territory of Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a list of key laws being considered. The laws of the customs authority in Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a list of those which could mean: These are the key points in the law which includes: Following the introduction of a new code of conduct, the government has published the terms and conditions of some of its laws. The UK Trade and Customs Authority (UKT ZED) has published a code of conduct which includes: The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the code. 1. Authorised person (representative) The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the code. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has signed a decree which makes it easier for the customs authorities to operate in the country. Here is the full text of the rules and regulations published by the president. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has issued a statement to the Cabinet of Ministers in charge of implementing the state fiscal policy in Ukraine. Here is the full list of the key details. 1. Information on export-import operations The terms of the role of an entities in the international supply chain have been published by the government of Ukraine. The executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy in England and Wales has issued a letter to the Treasury Secretary. Here are the key steps to ensure the authorisation of the Unified State Register of Authorised Economic Operators (AEO). The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. Here is a summary of the code. The rules for the use of a special simplification system in the customs inspection system have been published. The rules and conditions of the application of a permit to apply for international entities (AEO) have been published by the Ukrainian customs office. A further 10 rules have been published in the latest phase of the Code of Conduct Regulations. The executive board of Ukraine's customs agency has been ordered to impose administrative penalties for smuggling of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues or precursors. The Ukrainian authorities have published a code of conduct for serious customs violations in the country. Here is the full text of the code. 1. An administrative penalty is imposed across the border. The authorities in Ukraine have issued a formal notice to the owners of the country's largest accounting agency, which is registered for less than three years. Here is the full list of key facts. 1. Ukraine's customs authorities have issued a statement to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine asking them to ensure compliance with the AEU criteria. The Assets and Enterprises of Ukraine (AEO) has been granted approval by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoA) in the wake of President Viktor Yanukovych's decision to grant the authorisation. 1. The executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy responsible for arranging and conducting a compliance assessment The executive authority in charge of arranging and conducting a compliance assessment has outlined the rules for refusing to grant the AEO authorisation. The customs authorities in Ukraine have been told to exercise the rights provided for in their compliance assessment. Here is a guide to how they are allowed to take into account the information obtained by them. The executive authority in charge of arranging and conducting a compliance assessment has published the rules of how it will work. The executive authority in charge of implementing the compliance assessment of Ukraine's customs policy has announced a raft of measures which will be enforced by the government. The rules of how customs officials conducting a compliance assessment have been published by the Attorney General (AEO) . A draft report on the results of the assessment of compliance of an attorney general with the American Electoral Office (AEO) criterion has been submitted to the customs authority. The rules and procedures for a decision on granting Authority of Excellence (AEO) authorisation have been published by the government. The Australian Executive Office (AEO) has announced details of how it will carry out compliance monitoring measures following the suspension of its authorisation. The Ukrainian customs authorities have announced a raft of changes to their rules on compliance monitoring. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules on the conduct of a compliance re-assessment of the country's customs policy. Here are the key points. 1. The executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy in England and Wales has been ordered to conduct a re-assessment of its compliance rules. Following the results of a compliance re-assessment, the authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy has decided to suspend the authorisation of commercial means of transport (AEO). Here are the key points: Following the suspension of a customs authority (AEO) authorisation, the Department of State Customs has issued an updated notification on the issue. The rules on the assessment of measures taken by a customs official in the US have been published by the States of Guernsey. Following a review of the rules on assessment of measures taken by customs firms in Northern Ireland, the Department of Justice has issued an updated written notice to those who have not submitted objections. The Supreme Court has decided on the terms and procedures of renewing or revoking a customs agreement (AEO) by the executive authority in charge of implementing the State Customs Policy. The Ukrainian customs authorities have published a summary of their rules on moving goods and commercial means of transport across the border of Ukraine. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered a consultation on the application of certain provisions of the country’s customs legislation. Here are the rules and regulations being considered. 1. Liability for violation of information supply procedure The UK Trade and Customs Authority (UKT ZED) has issued a statement in which it describes the rules of the country's customs legislation. Ukraine's customs authorities have issued a raft of changes to the laws of the country. Here are the key facts about the issue. The Ukrainian Parliament has published the rules of the country's customs legislation. Here is a guide to the law. The government of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of its appeals against tax rulings. The law on appeals and other petitions of citizens in Ukraine has come into force. Here is a guide to the process. The government has published the rules on how to deal with the legality and reasonability of decisions, acts or omissions by customs authorities and their officials. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered the introduction of a new law on customs control. Here is the full text of the law. The executive authority in charge of implementing the state fiscal policy of Ukraine has published a code of conduct which includes the introduction of electronic documents and electronic document circulation in customs affairs. The executive authority in charge of implementing the customs legislation in Ukraine has published the details of the content of electronic documents. The introduction of the customs policy in Ukraine has been published by President Viktor Yanukovych. Here is a guide to how it works. Following the introduction of the customs border agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Turkey, the government has published a detailed guide to the process. 1. The compliance with the requirements for the confidentiality of information The executive authority in charge of implementing the state fiscal policy in Ukraine has published a code of practice which includes the introduction of the data provided via the single window for international trade. The World Customs Organisation (WTO) has published a list of rules and regulations designed to ensure the operation of the single state information web portal. The UK Trade Commission (UKT ZED) has published a list of key facts about the customs arrangements between Ukraine and the country. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a code of practice which aims to protect the information, telecommunication and supporting tools used by entities engaged in foreign trade. The Ukrainian government has published a code of conduct for the customs authorities and entities engaged in foreign trade. The European Union has published the rules of the country of origin of goods imported into Ukraine. The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Supreme Court. Here is a guide to the issue. The UK Transport Authority (UKT ZED) has published its rules on the criteria for sufficient processing of goods in free customs zones in Ukraine. Here is a guide to the process. The UK Trade and Customs Authority (UKT ZED) has published the rules for the processing of goods in the country where they were processed. Here is a guide to the provisions of the Article. The UK Trade and Customs Authority (UKT ZED) has published a list of key rules for the assembly of goods. The rules on the country of origin of goods imported into Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the process. The customs authorities in Ukraine have issued the country of origin of goods, including a certificate of the regional name. Here are 10 facts about the process. 1. Documents confirming the country of origin must be declared to the customs authority The customs authorities in Ukraine have issued a list of rules to check the country of origin of goods imported from Ukraine. The Code of Conduct in Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Here is a summary of the key points in the code. The Ukrainian government has issued a statement to the country's customs authority, which describes the value of imported goods. The Code of Conduct Regulations - which makes it easier to declare the customs value of goods in the UK and other parts of the country. 1. Declarant or its authorised representative who declares the customs value of goods released for free circulation The executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy in Ukraine has published a list of rules on how to determine the customs value of goods moved across the border of Ukraine. The declaration of the customs value of goods moved across the border of Ukraine in regimes other than import Customs regime has been published. The UK's customs authority has ordered the buyers to submit additional documents to the country of departure. Here is the full list of documents being submitted. The rules on the validity check of the customs value of goods imported into the territory of Ukraine have been published by the government. The UK's customs authority has been granted the right to carry out validity checks of the amount of goods the country holds when it makes a decision on their declaration. Here is the full list of rules and regulations being considered. The UK's customs authority has published a list of rules which apply to settle the changes to the country border with Ukraine. Here are the key points. 1. Adjustment of the Customs Value of Goods 1. The decision to adjust the customs value of goods The Isle of Man's customs authority has issued a written notice to the authorities in order to determine the value of goods declared in the country. Here are five key facts. The customs authority in Ukraine has been ordered to submit additional documents about the amount of goods it submitted to the country. The customs authority of Ukraine has published the rules on how to determine the import and import transactions entered by the declarants. The customs authority in Ukraine has announced that it will apply additional methods to determine the value of goods sold in the country. Here is a guide to the process. The rules of the customs valuation of goods imported to Ukraine have been published by the government. The price actually paid or payable for the goods being valued in Ukraine will be calculated under the rules of the UK's customs system. Here is a guide to how it calculates the price. The price of goods being valued in Ukraine will be calculated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The introduction of the customs rules on the import and export of goods from Ukraine has been published by the European Union. Here is a guide to the issue. The customs authority has published a list of rules which can be used to determine the value of identical goods sold to unrelated buyers for export to Ukraine. 1. The method of determining the customs value of goods sold in Ukraine based on the agreement (contract) price with respect to  similares Goods The customs authority in Ukraine has published a detailed guide to how it calculates the value of goods sold in the country. The Code of Conduct Regulations has been published by the Supreme Court. Here is a summary of the terms and conditions being considered. Ukraine's President Viktor Yanukovych has issued a decree on the amount of taxes and ordinary income and general expenses associated with the sale of goods of the same class and type. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on the value of goods being valued in the country. Here is a guide to the law. The government of Ukraine has announced that it will apply for the provisions of part 4 of the rules on the customs valuation of goods in the country. The Code of Conduct Regulations, which makes it easier to calculate the customs value of goods moved across the border of Ukraine, has been published by the government. Here is the guide to the process. The Ukrainian Customs Authority has published a detailed guide to the customs value of goods that are exported to Ukraine. The Ukrainian Customs Executive Authority (UKT ZED) has published a list of key facts about the UKT classification of goods of foreign economic activity. The UK Customs Authority (UKT ZED) has published a list of rules on the classification of goods for customs purposes. The UK Trade and Customs Development Commission (UKT ZED) has published a summary of its rules on customs regimes. Here is the full text of the introduction. The Ukrainian government has published a new code of rules on the customs and foreign economic activity of the country. The Ukrainian government has published a code of conduct which makes it easier to import foreign goods into the customs territory of Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has published the rules for placing goods placed under the customs regime of re-import. Here is a guide to the process. The Ukrainian government has published a detailed guide to the application of the customs regime of re-import. The Ukrainian government has published a detailed guide to the process of placing goods placed under the customs regime of re-import. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on the customs regimes of export and re-export. Here is a guide to the law. The customs regime of re-export has been announced by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to how it can be implemented. 1. Goods placed under the customs regime of import and re-export The Ukrainian government has published a detailed guide to the application of the customs regime of re-export. The Ukrainian government has published the terms and conditions of a new law which makes it easier for foreign goods to be re-exported. The rules and conditions for placing goods and commercial means of transport in the customs territory of Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. The government has published a list of the rules and obligations required to declare goods, commercial means of transport moved under the customs regime of transit. The introduction of the Convention on a Common Transit  procedure in Ukraine has been published by the European Union. Here is the full list of key facts. The government has published a raft of rules which apply to the customs authority in the coming weeks. Foreign goods imported into the territory of Ukraine by a sea (river) vessel have been allowed for cabotage. Here is the full text of the policy. The Foreign and Ukrainian customs authorities have published a code of conduct which allows the loading or unloading of goods carried in cabotage. The Ukrainian government has published a detailed guide to the process of cabotage transportation of goods. 1. When goods are imported into the customs territory of Ukraine in separate consignments, it will be discharged. The executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy in Ukraine has published a detailed guide to the issue of the customs transit regime. The Ukrainian government has published the rules for the import of goods and commercial means of transport imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. The tax authorities in Ukraine have issued a detailed explanation of the rules surrounding the customs regime of temporary import. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of rules on the amount of tax liabilities paid by the country's customs authorities. 1. The temporary import of goods and/or commercial means of transport cannot be exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine in a timely manner. The UK's customs authority has issued a temporary import order for goods from the UK to the United States. Here is the full text of the rules and regulations. The Central Executive Authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy of Ukraine has published a list of rules on the importation of goods and commercial means of transport. The Ukrainian government has issued a raft of changes to the country's customs legislation. This is a summary of the rules surrounding the export of goods, commercial means of transport. The Supreme Court has approved the introduction of a new code of conduct for the country's customs system. Here is the full text of the code. The Ukrainian government has issued an inquiry into the customs regime of the country. Here is a guide to the process. The Ukrainian government has published the rules for the customs control and re-export of goods imported into the country. The executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy in Ukraine has published the rules of warehouse accounting. The Supreme Court has ordered the immediate publication of a new law into the customs regime of Ukraine. The Ukrainian customs authority has published a detailed guide to the rules surrounding foreign goods stored in their warehouses. The customs authority of Ukraine has issued a written notice to the foreign authorities asking for permission to carry out operations provided for in parts 2 and 4 of this Article. The Ukrainian customs authority has published a raft of rules on how to implement the state fiscal policy. Here is the full text of the chapter 21. The Ukrainian government has published the rules of the customs regime for the first time. The government has published a list of rules which apply for the admission of goods in the free customs zones of commercial type located in sea, river ports or airports. The customs authority has issued a written notice to the Supreme Court on the issue of the new laws which require the re-export of foreign goods. The Central Executive Authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy in Ukraine has published a list of rules on the release of products of processing of goods placed under the free customs zone. The government of Ukraine has published the laws of the country's customs authority which describe the import and export of foreign goods. Here is a guide to the law. This is a summary of the rules and conditions of placing goods in the customs regime of duty-free trade. The terms of the supply of goods by duty-free shops to air, water or railway commercial means of transport operating international flights have been published by the government. The Ministry of Justice has published a draft report on the supply of unsold goods by duty-free shops on board an air means of transport performing international flights. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published a list of key rules for the delivery of goods intended for sale to passengers on board an aircraft carrying out an international flight. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has ordered the return of unsold goods to a duty-free shop in Ukraine. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published the rules on duty-free trade in Ukraine. The Code of Conduct of the World Trade Organization (WTO) has been published by the Supreme Court. Here is a guide to the process. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules of processing on the customs territory and restrictions for placement certain goods under the processing regime. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on processing of goods on the customs territory of Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has issued a permit for processing of goods in the customs territory of Ukraine. Here are the rules and regulations being considered. 1. The Central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy in Ukraine has issued a written notice to the owners of goods imported into the country. The Ukrainian government has published the latest rules on how to establish the nature of processing operations and technological process imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. The rules of the customs territory of Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here are the key points in the law. The Supreme Court has ordered the immediate suspension of the processing period in the customs territory of Ukraine. Here is a guide to the process. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on how to implement the state fiscal policy in the country. Here is a guide to the process. The Ukrainian government has published the rules for the sale of goods for free circulation in the customs territory of Ukraine. The Ukrainian customs authority has issued a raft of changes to its rules on foreign goods processing. Here are the key points. The executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy in Ukraine has published a detailed guide to the process of processing foreign goods in the customs territory of Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has published the terms and conditions of the customs territory of Ukraine. Here is a guide to how it can be implemented. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules for the export of goods for processing outside the customs territory of the country. The customs authority of Ukraine has issued a written application for processing of goods outside the territory of the country. The customs authority of Ukraine has issued a notice to the foreign trade contract which allows the export of goods from the country to other countries. Here is the guide to issuance of permission. The government of Ukraine has issued a written notice to the executive authority in charge of processing goods outside the customs territory of the country. Here are the key points. The government of Ukraine has issued a written notice to the authorities in charge of implementing the state fiscal policy. Here are the key facts. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on the state customs policy. Here is a guide to how it will work. The Ukrainian government has published the terms and conditions of the introduction of a new law which makes it easier to import foreign goods from the customs territory of Ukraine. The executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy in Ukraine has published the rules of the country's customs policy. The abolition or destruction of foreign goods in Ukraine has been published by the government. Here is the full text of the latest chapter in the law. The abolition or destruction of goods in Ukraine will be carried out by the customs authority in which they are processed. The abolition and destruction of goods and their customs status have been published by the Ukrainian government. The abolition and destruction of goods destroyed in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a summary of the key laws in the law. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered the abolition or destruction of goods placed under the customs regime of refusal in favor of the state. The terms and procedure for movement and release of goods, commercial means of transport across the customs border of Ukraine have been published. The Supreme Court has ordered the immediate introduction of a new law which aims to accelerate the completion of customs formalities across the country. The Ukrainian customs authority has published the rules on the use of commercial means of transport, including vehicles and other equipment. The European Union has published the rules and obligations of Ukraine's customs authorities. Here is a guide to the issue. The CMR has published a list of steps to prevent unloading and storage of goods without the authorisation of the responsible person. The government has issued a raft of changes to the Ukrainian customs code. Here are the key points. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has issued a written notice to the customs authority on the arrival of goods and commercial means of transport. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the list of goods submitted to the authorities in the country's customs system. The customs authority in Ukraine has issued a written application to cancel the general arrival declaration submitted to the territory of Ukraine. Here are the 10 rules which apply to this article. The Code of Conduct Regulations has been published by the Ukrainian customs authority. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published a list of measures which could be enforced by the Ukrainian government. The UK Trade and Customs Authority (UKT ZED) has published the rules on the movement of certain goods, commercial means of transport across the custom border of Ukraine. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published a detailed guide to the rules surrounding the customs clearance of goods from Ukraine. The rules on the delivery of goods and documents in place designated by the customs authority of Ukraine have been published. The introduction of the temporary storage of goods under customs control has been published by the government. The temporary storage warehouse keepers and the head of the beneficiary of humanitarian aid will be exempted from administrative liability, the Treasury has said. The temporary storage of goods kept in a public warehouse under customs control will be extended to 30 days. Here is the full text of the rules and regulations published by the government. The Ukrainian customs authority has issued a code of restrictions on the temporary storage of goods that have become unfit, destroyed or damaged. The customs authority of Ukraine has ordered the release of goods placed in temporary storage warehouses at airports, sea and river ports where there are checkpoints across the state border with Ukraine. The government has issued a raft of rules and regulations related to the customs authority in Ukraine. Here are the key sections of the law. The rules of the customs supervision of freight operations in waterways have been published. The Ukrainian customs authority has issued a raft of rules aimed at preventing foreign-going vessels from entering the territory of Ukraine. The Ukrainian authorities have issued a statement which describes the customs formalities of the country. The rules on customs formalities for railway rolling stock and road transport have been published by the Ukrainian government. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published a summary of the rules on international road transport in Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on the importation of goods and passengers into the customs territory of Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has issued a new law which requires the release of stores imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by water, air and rail transport carrying out international traffic. The government has issued a raft of restrictions on the export of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products on board means of transport engaged in international traffic crossing the customs territory of Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has published the rules and procedures of the country's customs regime. 1. The volume of natural gas being declared across the border of Ukraine under foreign economic agreements The Ukrainian government has published the rules for moving and sending goods through the customs border of Ukraine by international mail and express mail. The Ukrainian border checkpoint has been approved by the government. Here is a guide to how international mail and express mail will be carried out under customs control. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of rules on how to deliver international and express mail to the customs authority. The executive authority in charge of implementing the customs policy in the field of postal services in Ukraine has published a list of rules which apply to the government. The European Union has published the rules and restrictions on movement (sending) of certain kinds of goods by international mail and express mail. The Ukrainian government has published the terms and conditions of moving goods across the border of Ukraine by international mail and express mail. The Ukrainian government has published a list of key rules on the importation of goods to and from the customs territory of Ukraine. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published the rules on the transfer of goods to the customs authority of Ukraine. The Ministry of Treasury has published the rules and conditions of storage of goods, commercial means of transport stored in warehouses of the customs authorities. The Treasury has published details of the amount of expenses incurred in storage of goods and means of transport in warehouses of customs authorities. The rules on keeping goods stored in the warehouses of the customs authorities in England and Wales have been published. The Isle of Man's customs authorities have issued a compulsory notice to the holders of goods, commercial means of transport and proceeds. The Supreme Court has ordered the immediate release of vehicles seized in the customs control areas of the Ukraine border. Here is a guide to the issue. 1. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules on the sale and disposal of goods referred to in clauses 1 and 2 of this article. The Isle of Man's customs commission has issued a notice to the owners of goods and means of transport seized by the Court of Appeal. Here are five rules which could be applied to those cases. 1. Why is it illegal? The Code of Conduct in Ukraine has been published by the Central Executive Authority. Here is the full text of the code. This article contains a detailed guide to customs clearance procedures. This is a summary of the key facts about customs clearance in Ukraine. The customs clearance system has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to how it works. The introduction of the rules on customs clearance procedures in England and Wales has been published. Here is a guide to the issue. A detailed guide to the rules surrounding the UK's customs permit form: The AEO-C certified organisation has issued a warning to the customs office about the arrival of commercial vehicle and its consignment at the facility where it delivered goods. The AEO-C certified organisation that uses special simplified “released at location procedure” to transfer goods entering the Ukrainian country using special seals. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules on the customs clearance of goods and foreign investments entering the country. The Ukrainian government has published the rules and conditions of the country's customs clearance code. Here is a guide to the process. Following the suspension of customs clearance in Ukraine, the government has issued a statement which explains how the law is handled. The Denial of Customs clearance is a written reasoned decision made by Ukraine's central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. Following is a summary of the rules surrounding the customs clearance of goods, commercial vehicles and containers used in international carriages and in Ukraine under their control. The introduction of the simplified customs declaration of goods in Ukraine has been published by the government. Here is a guide to how it can be implemented. The preliminary customs declaration of goods, commercial vehicles submitted to the Ukrainian border has been published by the government. In our series of letters from African journalists, readers are being asked to explain how they can submit preliminary customs declaration. The introduction of preliminary and periodical customs declarations in the UK is based on currency exchange rates and tariff regulation of import-export activity existing at the date of release. 1. Completion of provisional customs declaration The European Union's customs authority has issued a written inquiry to explain the rules of the Customs Code. A detailed list of key facts about the simplified customs declaration of goods imported from Ukraine. The UK Customs Authority (AEO-C) has issued a permit which includes the basic rules for the use of special simplified declaring procedures. A detailed guide to the rules surrounding customs declarations in Ukraine: The Ukrainian government has published the rules for the customs declaration of goods and commercial vehicles across its borders. The declaration of goods, commercial vehicles in Ukraine has been published by the customs authority. Here is a guide to how it can be declared. 1. The customs declaration of goods, commercial vehicles across Ukrainian borders The Supreme Court has ordered the introduction of a law requiring the customs authority to provide sufficient information and documents required by the current law. The Ukrainian government has issued a notice to the authorities in charge of implementing the customs declaration of goods, commercial vehicles and other products imported to and from Ukraine. This is a guide to the rights and responsibilities of the declarant and authorised person. The UK customs authority has issued a detailed explanation of the rules surrounding the import and export of goods in Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of key rules on customs declarations. The Ukrainian government has issued a statement to the country's customs authorities asking them to revise the declaration of goods and commercial vehicles. The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a list of the key laws in the code. The tax code of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a list of the key points of taxation. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has signed a decree on the introduction of the country's new laws on taxation. Here is the full list of key rules. The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the European Commission on International Trade. Here is a summary of the key laws in the code. The government of Ukraine has published a list of key rules which could be enforced by the country's customs authorities. The UK Trade Agreement (UKT ZED) has published a list of key areas of Ukraine's response to the decommissioning of the Chernobyl nuclear plant. The UK Transport Authority (UKT ZED) has published a list of technical and transport goods imported into Ukraine from 1 January 2013. A taxpayer has been ordered to pay late payments for the use of defence products, including percussion capsules, detonators and other military weapons. The tax code of Ukraine has published the rules on which businesses and individuals will be exempt from duty. Ukraine's customs rules have been published by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Ukraine's new rules on import duty have been published by the government. The government of Ukraine has issued a raft of changes to the country’s customs rules, including partial relief from import duty. The Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers has published the rules for importing goods imported into the country by a scientific park project. The Ukrainian government has published a list of products imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, including machinery, equipment and accessories. The import duty of goods imported into Ukraine by citizens will be determined by the annexation of the European Union's customs code. The rules of the customs authority in Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. The tax laws of Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here are some of the key points in the law. Following the introduction of a new law on the import and export of goods into the customs territory of Ukraine, the BBC looks at some of the key facts about the issue. The government has published the rules on how to secure payment of customs payments. Here is a summary of the key points in the law. The taxation base for the assessment of customs payments will be determined in the case of illegal imports and export of goods from Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has issued a new law which makes it easier to pay customs payments to the taxpayer. The rules on how to pay customs payments in Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of the rules surrounding the payment of customs payments. A detailed guide to the rules surrounding customs payments. The Budget and Tax codes of Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to how they can be refunded from mistakenly paid and/or overpaid amounts of customs payments. The taxpayer's right to refund the amounts of mistakenly paid and overpaid customs payments has been declared by the tax authority. Ukraine's customs declaration has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the law on late payment fees. The Treasury has published the full text of the guarantee of security of customs payments to the taxpayer. The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of providing financial guarantees. The UK Treasury has published a list of key facts about the customs authority's handling of the obligations to secure financial guarantees. Financial guarantees - which can be secured with a financial assurance : The Assets Enforcement Office (AEO) has published a list of rules which apply to secure the amount of customs payments submitted to Ukraine. The Asset Management Office (AEO) is seeking to change the security of the general financial guarantee issued by a guarantor. The Attorney General of Ukraine (AEO) has issued an e-mail notification to the customs office of the country. Here is a guide to how the AEO obligation to inform the authorities of all events and circumstances which may affect or affect its compliance with the conditions. Financial guarantees are provided to the customs authorities during or before the declaration of goods to Ukraine. The financial guarantees issued by the Ukrainian customs authority have been published. Here is a guide to how the legislation is implemented. The financial guarantee issued by the UK's customs authority will be released within two hours when the goods are declared and placed under control. The financial guarantees provided in the form of a document: The Treasury has published a detailed guide to the process of depositing cash collateral and returning funds. 1. The banking institution, other legal entities in Ukraine, must have the powers of guarantor from a central executive authority implementing the state customs policy. The rules and regulations of the customs authorities of Ukraine have been published by the Ministry of Justice. Here is a guide to the process of obtaining the status of guarantor. The Ukrainian government has published a list of financial guarantees for the country's banking institutions. The introduction of the TIR Convention on Temporary Admission (TIR) has been published by the government of Ukraine. Here is a guide to how it works. The Ukrainian government has published a draft of its rules on customs control measures. Following the declaration of a ban on importing goods into the customs territory of Ukraine, President Viktor Yanukovych has announced the terms of the decision. The border checkpoint (control point) of Ukraine will be closed within two hours from the beginning of the official control measures in the customs regime. Following the introduction of the customs laws of Ukraine, the government has issued a deadline for non-submission of information on the performance of procedures. A detailed guide to the key steps to implementing the state customs policy in Ukraine: 1) enter into the single state information web portal “Single window for international trade” Following the introduction of a new rules on customs control measures in Ukraine, the BBC looks at the key steps to implementing these laws. 1. Inspectorate inspections The rules on the release of goods recognised as humanitarian assistance by the customs authorities of Ukraine have been published. The executive authority in charge of implementing the state customs policy in Ukraine has published a code of conduct which includes the release of goods to the border checkpoint (control point) of Ukraine. Authorised bodies carrying out official control measures in the customs territory of Ukraine have been given a register of information. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on the customs control of goods, commercial means of transport. The Ukrainian government has issued a new law which makes it easier for officials of the customs authorities to leave the territory of Ukraine. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered the introduction of new laws on customs control. Here is a guide to the law. The Ukrainian government has published a code of conduct for the use and disposal of goods, commercial means of transport across the border of Ukraine. The rules for the identification of goods placed under Ukraine's customs regime have been published by the European Union of Ecommerce (AEO). Here are some of the key points. 1. Identification The Ukrainian government has published a raft of rules on the customs declaration of goods, containers and commercial means of transport. The Ukrainian government has published a code of conduct for establishing customs control areas at the border crossing points of Ukraine. The Supreme Court has ordered the authorities of the customs control zones to issue a written authorisation to the decision-making authority. Ukraine's customs control laws have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. Documents and information required for customs control a) cargo declaration: A list of documents which can be used to determine the availability of goods and weapons carried aboard an aircraft. The Ukrainian border checkpoint has been ordered to submit a range of documents (information) to the customs authorities. The declaration and customs clearance of goods declared by the Associated Eastern Economic Organization (AEO) in Ukraine will be published in January 2018. A detailed list of steps to implement the customs control of goods imported across the Ukrainian border. The Ukrainian government has published a code of conduct for the customs authorities when goods, commercial means of transport are moving across the border of Ukraine. The Isle of Man's customs authorities have issued a new law which requires post-customs control. 1. The examination of goods, commercial means of transport The Ukrainian government has published a code of conduct for examination and re-examination of goods, commercial means of transport. The Ukrainian government has published the rules for the re-examination of hand luggage, baggage and other goods, means of transport. The government says it will have the right to carry out the (re-)examination report. President Viktor Yanukovych has ordered a review of hand luggage, baggage and personal inspection by the customs authority. A detailed guide to the rules surrounding the personal inspection of the customs authority in Ukraine. Authorities in Ukraine have published a detailed guide to the state fiscal policy of the country. The executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy in Ukraine has published a detailed outline of the rules surrounding customs control. The government of Ukraine has approved a report form for inspections of the territory and premises of temporary storage warehouses, duty-free shops and customs zones. The Ukrainian government has published a raft of changes to the customs laws of the country. Here is the full text of this article. The UK Customs Authority has published a statement in which it describes the rules surrounding the customs control of Ukraine. On-site desktop audits by the customs authority will be carried out under the order of the central executive authorities in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has issued a written notice to the customs authority in charge of implementing the state Customs policy. Here is the rules for coordination of scheduled on-site audits. The tax authorities in Ukraine have issued a written notice to the auditee of the Ukrainian tax office. Here is the full list of rules and conditions which could be enforced. 1. Auditees have been suspended On-site (scheduled) desktop audits in Ukraine could be suspended under the order of the customs authority. The customs authority in Ukraine has issued a written order to suspend on-site (scheduled or un scheduled) desktop audits. Following the introduction of a code of conduct by Ukraine’s customs regulatory authority, President Viktor Yanukovych has ordered the auditee to carry out checks and inspections. Here are the key points: 1. In the course of on-site desktop audit, the customs officials shall be obliged to: Ukraine's customs authority has announced that it will conduct on-site desktop audits and cross-checks. Here is a guide to how the audit is carried out. The Isle of Man's customs authority has issued a written notice to the public to explain the rules of conducting an audit. The rules and obligations of the auditee’s officials in the course of desktop audits Ukraine’s customs authority auditors have been appointed to carry out a series of audits, including: The customs authority in Ukraine has issued a written notice to the citizens of the country asking for information about the cleared goods it received. The Criminal  procedure Code of Ukraine has published a list of documents obtained by the customs authority auditors. The Isle of Man’s customs authority has announced a deadline for the public to submit documents (their copies), representations and references to the auditee. Here are five rules which apply to be submitted. The Code of Conduct Regulations is to be published in January 2018. Here is a guide to the process of documenting the audit findings. 1. Audit report (statement) The head of Ukraine’s customs authority has issued a notice to the auditee of the country's tax office. Here is the rules and regulations being considered. A tax notice is to be issued to the auditee of the customs authority in Ukraine. The UKT ZED customs declarations are to be reviewed by the Ukrainian Customs Auditee. The rules for taking probes (samples) of goods from the customs territory of Ukraine have been published. The executive authority in charge of implementing the state fiscal policy in Ukraine has announced a declaration on the taking of probes (samples) of goods taken by other foreign economic entities. The executive authority in charge of implementing the state fiscal policy in England and Wales has issued a statement on the taking of probes (samples) of goods under customs control. The government has issued a raft of rules designed to prevent the taking of perishable goods. The rules on the suspension of testing ( analysis, expert examination) of goods that are perishable or have limited shelf life have been published by the government. The rules on testing ( analysis, expert examination) which have been conducted by the customs authority in England and Wales have come into force. Parts 14 of the Code of Conduct Regulations have been published. The President of Ukraine, President Petro Poroşenko, has signed a decree which makes it easier to claim certain types of goods, commercial means of transport across the border of the country. Here is the full text of this chapter. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has published a summary of its rules on customs examination. The government has published a list of key steps to ensure the efficiency of the customs authorities in Ukraine. 1. Measures to improve the risk management system The Ukrainian government has published the terms and procedures of the customs clearance and taxation of goods transferred across the border of Ukraine. The rules on customs clearance in Ukraine have been published by the UK Trade and Customs Enforcement Department (UKT ZED). The Ukrainian government has issued a statement to the public about the two-Channel system of customs control over goods, commercial vehicles moved across the border of Ukraine by citizens. This is a full text of the rules and regulations on moving goods across the Ukraine border. The Supreme Court has ordered the withdrawal of personal belongings of citizens from the customs border of Ukraine. The government of Ukraine has published a list of items intended to meet the daily needs of its citizens. The Ukrainian government has issued a written declaration of goods moved (shipped) through the border of Ukraine by citizens. This is a detailed list of key facts about the temporary export of goods by citizens outside the customs territory of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules on temporary export of goods by citizens outside the customs territory of the country. This is a summary of the rules surrounding the import and export of goods imported to the customs territory of Ukraine. The rules on the importation of goods into the customs territory of Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. 1. The norms set forth in part 1 The UK Tax Code of Ukraine has issued a list of key rules for the importation of goods imported by citizens in hand luggage. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published the list of goods moved and shipped in the territory of Ukraine. Following is a summary of the rules surrounding the import and export of goods sent and moved into the customs territory of Ukraine. 1) goods imported (shipped) by citizens in connection with relocating to a permanent place of residence in Ukraine within six months from the date on which they were issued. The UK Trade and Customs Authority (UKT ZED) has published a list of key facts about the export of goods to Ukraine. The UK Transport Authority (UKT ZED) has published the list of goods imported into Ukraine by foreign nationals in connection with resettlement to a permanent place of residence in Ukraine with exemption from customs duties. The Ukrainian government has published the rules for the importation of goods imported by citizens into the Customs Territory of Ukraine. The UK Trade and Customs Authority (UKT ZED) has published a detailed list of key rules for the import and export of goods in Ukraine. The UK Transport Authority (UKT ZED) has published the terms of the import and transit of goods by citizens into the customs territory of Ukraine. Here is a guide to the issue. The customs authorities in Ukraine have issued a written declaration on the terms of the importation of goods from the country. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on temporary importation by citizens of personal and commercial vehicles into the customs territory of Ukraine. The UK Transport Authority (UKT ZED) has published the terms and conditions of the importation of vehicles for personal use in Ukraine. Here is a guide to the rules provided for in the first, second and fifth paragraphs of this part. 1. Temporary imports by residents of non-resident enterprises The UK Trade and Customs Authority (UKT ZED) has published the rules on the importation of personal use vehicles into Ukraine. Here is a guide to the issue. 1. Residents who are on temporary consular registration in the Consular office of Ukraine abroad The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published the rules on the movement of personal use vehicles temporarily imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by citizens. This is a full summary of the rules on customs clearance and taxation of goods moved across the Customs Territory of Ukraine by diplomatic missions of foreign states in Ukraine. The Foreign Office has published a detailed explanation of the customs clearance and taxation of goods imported into the Customs Territory of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules on the importation and taxation of goods imported into the country. Here is a guide to the issue. The Foreign Office of Ukraine has published a code of conduct which makes it easier for foreign diplomats and consular couriers to leave the country. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has published a code of conduct for foreign diplomatic staff and their staff. Officials of the missions of foreign states and international organisations in Ukraine have become the first citizens to leave the customs territory of Ukraine. Here is a guide to how they are treated. The Ukrainian authorities have issued a temporary admission order for motor vehicles imported to the territory of Ukraine. Here is the full text of the order. Foreign diplomatic missions of Ukraine will be allowed to export goods in the customs territory of the country under the temporary importation procedure. The Supreme Court has ordered the introduction of a new law to protect intellectual property rights while moving goods to the customs border of Ukraine. The executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy in Ukraine has issued a statement in favour of the suspension of customs formalities. The Supreme Court has ordered the suspension of customs clearance of goods in the country in a bid to protect the protection of intellectual property rights. Here are the key points. The law on intellectual property rights in the customs border has been published by the Supreme Court. Here is a guide to the process. The suspension of customs clearance of goods in England and Wales will be extended by up to 10 working days. Here is a guide to the process. The suspension of customs clearance of perishable goods in England and Wales will be extended by three working days or not for more than 20 days. Here are five things you need to know about the issue. The suspension of customs clearance of goods in the case of infringement of intellectual property rights is to be extended to the term established by other public authorities. The rules of the customs authority's decision to suspend the clearance of goods in which the right holder failed to file an application for facilitation of protection of their intellectual property rights have been published. The suspension of customs clearance of goods on suspicion of infringement of intellectual property rights will be carried out in the manner prescribed by the government. This is a full transcript of the suspension of customs clearance of goods in the UK. Destruction of goods that have been suspended by the customs authority in England and Wales will be allowed under the rules of the Code of Conduct. The suspension of customs clearance and destruction of small consignments of goods in international postal and express items has been published by the UK Customs Agency. The suspension of customs clearance of small consignments of goods in England and Wales will be reviewed by the chief executive of the UK Customs Council. Here is a guide to the process. The Supreme Court has ordered the suspension of customs clearance in the case of infringement of intellectual property rights. Here is a guide to the process. The government of Ukraine has published the draft laws on customs authorities' control over certain types of enterprise activities. The rules of issuance of permits and control over the activities of customs enterprises that received them have been published by the government. The rules on the rights of foreign businesses in Ukraine have been published by the country's government. Here is a guide to the process. The rules for the issuance and renewal of customs permissions in England and Wales have been published. This is the full text of the latest chapter in the customs laws of Ukraine. The rules for the sale of goods by duty-free shops in Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. The rules of the duty-free trade shops in Ukraine have been published by the country's central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy. The introduction of the laws surrounding the opening and exploitation of customs warehouses has been published by the government. Here is a summary of what it means. The Code of Conduct for Ukraine has been published by the customs authority. Here is a guide to how it will work. Ukraine's customs authority has published the rules of warehouse accounting in the country. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has issued a statement which describes the breaches of the law on the import of goods from Ukraine. The government of Ukraine has published the code of conduct for the opening of free customs zones of commercial and service types. Here is a summary of the rules and conditions being considered. The government has published the rules and conditions surrounding the arrangement and organisation of work for free customs zones. The Ukrainian government has published a code of conduct for the country's free customs zone. The Code of Conduct Regulations has been published by the government. Here is a summary of the rules and regulations surrounding the issue. The temporary storage warehouses of the open type have been published by the Ministry of Treasury. This is a summary of the rules surrounding the breach of customs control in Ukraine. The Code of Conduct has been published by the Treasury Authority. Here is a summary of the key points in the code. The government of Ukraine has published a list of key laws to ensure the electronic accounting of goods and commercial vehicles moving through the territory of the customs complex. The customs statistics of international trade is a system which requires statistical information. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the use of information submitted to customs authorities. The rules of the customs declarations and the use of statistic information on foreign trade issues have been published by the Ukrainian government. The executive authority implementing the state customs policy in Ukraine has issued a statement which describes changes to the register of people who carry out trade in the country. The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a summary of the key chapters. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published the latest chapter of the country's customs laws. The government has issued a warning to the citizens who commit illegally in the customs border with Ukraine. Here is the full list of the subjects of administrative penalties. The latest amendments to the Internal Revenue and Customs Regulations have been published. The Ukrainian government has published the terms of the law which makes it easier to apply administrative penalties to violators of customs rules. The Supreme Court has ordered the suspension of criminal proceedings in cases of breach of customs rules and liability for such violations. The introduction of a raft of fines in the UK's customs laws has been published by the government. Here are the key points to the issue. The Supreme Court has ordered the introduction of a new law which makes it easier to avoid fines. Here is the full text of the law. This is a summary of the breaches of customs control in the zones (corridors) of Simplified Customs Control, i. e. non-declaration of goods, commercial vehicles. The Supreme Court has ordered the immediate publication of a new law which makes it easier to avoid fines. The Supreme Court has ordered the introduction of a raft of fines for breaches of the customs laws in Ukraine. Here is the full list of key facts. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has published a list of breaches of the legislation established by the country's customs authority. The Ukrainian government has published the latest rules on fines and sanctions imposed by those who exceed the terms of temporary imports of personal vehicles into the customs territory of Ukraine. This is a summary of the actions committed by the person who during the year was prosecuted for breaching customs rules. The UK Trade and Customs Authority (UKT ZED) has published a list of the actions committed by the person who during the year was prosecuted for breaching customs control. The UK Trade and Customs Authority (UKT ZED) has published its latest chapter on the process of issuing in the public declaration for illegal exemption from payment of public payments. The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Supreme Court. Here is a guide to how it can be handled. The Code of Conduct of the United Kingdom has published the rules of conducting proceedings in the case of violation of customs regulations. The executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy in England and Wales has issued a protocol to prosecute people who have been prosecuted for violating customs rules. The Isle of Man's customs authorities have issued a protocol which could be handed over to people who have been brought to administrative responsibility for violating the rules. The law enforcement agencies have published the protocol on the seizure of goods seized from the border with Ukraine. The introduction of the law on criminal proceedings on smuggling in the presence of signs of violation of customs rules has been published by the Supreme Court. This is a full list of rights given to people who are held to administrative liability for violating customs rules. The powers of legal representatives in the case of a settlor who is being prosecuted for violating Ukrainian customs rules have been issued to him. The Supreme Court has ordered the introduction of a new law to protect lawyers in the case of violation of customs rules. The Crown Prosecution Service has published a list of rules which can be enforced in the case against the customs authorities in England and Wales. The UK's customs watchdog has published a list of rules which could be applied to the authorities when they are conducting examinations. The Code of Conduct has published a list of key facts about the conduct of the interrogation of witnesses in the case of violating customs regulations. The Supreme Court has ordered the introduction of a new law which makes it easier for officials to conduct proceedings in the case of violation of customs rules. The Ministry of Justice has published a code of conduct for the detention of non-resident citizens on the territory of Ukraine. The government has published the latest chapters in the Code of Conduct . The executive authority in charge of implementing the state fiscal policy has issued a formal survey of officials who are summoned for questioning. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published a detailed guide to the issue of the temporary seizure of goods, vehicles and documents. The executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing customs inspections in England and Wales has published a detailed guide to the process. The Supreme Court has ordered the appointment of a customs examination. Here is the full text of the order. The Supreme Court has ordered the appointment of a customs expert to examine officials prosecuted for violating the law. Here are some of the key facts. The Treasury has published a list of the costs and expenses incurred in the case of violation of customs rules. The Code of Conduct has been published by the Supreme Court in Strasbourg. Here is a guide to the issue. The Isle of Man's customs authority has announced a deadline for signing an amicable agreement with the authorities which are authorised to consider cases of violation of regulations by means of compromise. The Supreme Court has published the rules on which people under 18 years old have been charged in the case of a criminal offence. Here is the full list of the powers of customs officials. The Code of Conduct has been published by the British Parliament. Here is a guide to how the law is implemented. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered the return of goods and vehicles confiscated to the authorities in the case of violating customs rules. Here is the full text of the law. The law on administrative offences in the case of violation of customs rules in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the law. The Court of Human Rights in Ukraine has published the rules for revoking or change a resolution on imposition of an administrative penalty or to terminate the proceedings in the case of violation of customs regulations. This is a summary of the terms and conditions of enforcing the penalties imposed by the customs authorities in England and Wales. The government has issued a raft of rules which can be enforced by the customs authorities in Ukraine. The executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state fiscal policy in Ukraine has published a list of rules which can be enforced by the authorities. The Ukrainian government has published a summary of its rules on customs authorities. Following is a list of key steps to implement the customs rules of Ukraine: The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has ordered the introduction and implementation of the country's customs policy. Here is a summary of what it does. The government has published the draft code of customs for Ukraine. Here is a summary of the key points in the code. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has announced the establishment of special educational institutions and research institutions in the country. Here is a guide to the process. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of key laws in the country's customs law. Here is the full list. Ukraine's customs authorities have been ordered to carry out a joint investigation into breaches of their powers. The Ukrainian government has issued a statement to the National Police on the issue of customs regulations. Here is the full text of the laws announced by President Viktor Yanukovych. The President of Ukraine, Petro Poroshenko, has signed a decree on the introduction of the new laws on customs control in the country. Here is the full list of key acts. The head of the customs authorities of Ukraine and his deputies have the right to carry out joint actions aimed at prevention, detection and stoping smuggling at checkpoints across the state border. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published a summary of the rules surrounding customs authorities in Ukraine. 1. Recruitment to the customs authorities of Ukraine is carried out on a competitive basis, unless otherwise provided by law. The Ministry of Justice has published the draft rules for the extended terms of the contract of civil service. The government has published the latest chapter in the law on customs and vocational education. The government of Ukraine has published a raft of laws related to the country's customs affairs. Here is the full text of the law. The Ukrainian government has published a raft of laws including the protection of life, health and property of customs officials. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules on the use of special means in the country's customs service. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published the rules on the use of firearms in Ukraine. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published the latest chapter in the law which includes the terms and conditions of the country's customs authorities. Officials and employees of the Ukrainian customs authorities have been given the go-ahead by the government. The Constitution of Ukraine has been published by President Viktor Yanukovych. Here is the full text of the new law. 1) Law of Ukraine “On the Regulations of the Customs Territory” These are some of the key laws of Ukraine which have been published by the Ukrainian government. These are some of the key laws of Ukraine which have been published in the past few years. 1. Laws of Ukraine, acts of the USSR and other central executive authorities in the field of state customs The UK Treasury has published a list of foreign goods imported from the Republic of Ukraine to the UK. The UK Transport Authority (UKT ZED) has published a list of goods imported into Ukraine for use in the construction and equipment of airports that are facilities of the final part of European Football Championship 2012. 1) until 1 January 2023 Ukraine’s Olympic and Paralympic Games will begin on 1 January 2018. Here is a guide to the importation of goods, equipment, machinery and components that are not produced and have no analogues in Ukraine. 8) - materials, assemblies, units and components imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by domestic machine-building enterprises for the agro-industrial complex The UK Transport Authority (UKT) has issued a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to explain the circumstances surrounding the import of goods from the country. The UK Trade and Development Commission (UKT ZED) has published a subclause on the import of goods imported to Ukraine. The UK Trade Agreement (UKT ZED) is to be extended until 1 January 2025. Here is the list of goods imported to the UK during the transition period. The government of Ukraine has issued a written notice to the authorities in charge of implementing the state fiscal policy. The introduction of a clause in the Tax Code of Ukraine which makes it easier to import goods imported from the occupied territory of the country. The Ministry of Defence (UKT) has published a list of products which could be sold in the UK without tariff regulation. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has ordered the issuing of one-time permits for importing medicinal products and medical devices. A list of foreign goods and commercial vehicles imported in the customs territory of Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. The terms of temporary imports of goods, commercial vehicles imported from Japan to Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. The rules on the importation of goods and vehicles imported into the customs territory of Ukraine have been published. The Code of Conduct of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. 1. Measures on customs control Following a series of letters from the Ukrainian government, President Viktor Yanukovych explains how the country's customs policy is implemented. Following the introduction of a new law, the government of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of the country's customs policy: 6-3. 1. The basic principles of the Common Transit Convention The Supreme Court has ordered the introduction of a new law on customs clearance of goods, vehicles across the country. The Ukrainian government has published a draft law which aims to complete customs formalities during the transit of goods imported into the territory of Ukraine within 270 days from the date of entry into force of the law. The UK Transport Authority (UKT ZED) has published a new chapter in the law on customs clearance of vehicles. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has announced a raft of changes to the country's customs rules. Here is the full text of the amendments to this code. Ukraine's President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree on the creation of an automated customs registration system.