The government of Ukraine has passed a law to approve the country's mineral resources base development programme for the period until the year 2030. Ukraine is one of the world's largest mineral resources. Ukraine's independence from Soviet Union has created a massive expansion of its natural resources, according to the Ukrainian government. In our series of letters from African journalists, scientists and academics assess the impact of mineral resources on the economy. Ukraine's mineral resources programme has been published by the European Commission. Ukraine's government has announced the creation of a new mineral resources programme. The programme aims to increase the effectiveness of state and private business resources. Ukraine's mineral resources programme has been published by the government. The Western region of Ukraine has a significant prospect for increasing hydrocarbon reserves and their extraction. Ukraine's state budget is expected to increase the number of free gas and coal reserves in the next five years. The Ukrainian government has announced plans to increase the number of hydrocarbons in the country. The Ukrainian government has announced plans to develop a new strategy for shale gas exploration and development. Ukraine's uranium and iron ore exploration programme is a major step forward. In our series of letters from African journalists, scientists and academics are looking at the importance of manganese ore in Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has announced a series of detailed assessments of the exploration and commissioning of Manganese ore deposits in the Pobuzhzhia region. Ukraine's aluminium industry is struggling to meet its needs, according to experts. The exploration of copper ore in the Ukrainian territory of Donetsk and Volyn-Podillia is a major step forward. Ukraine is looking for a new type of copper ore extraction. Ukraine is developing a new type of raw material - lead and zinc. Scientists in Ukraine are looking at further evidence of gold-galenite-sphalerite ore occurrences. Ukraine's two largest mines and processing plants, Tarasivka-Tarashcha and Fedorivka, are being developed in a bid to make it easier to obtain rare minerals. The Ukrainian government has unveiled plans for exploration of tin deposits in the Eastern Pryazovia region. The discovery of a new ore occurrence of tungsten and molybdenum has significantly increased Ukraine's prospects for discovering its own industrial deposits. The extraction of tantalum and niotium in the Eastern Pryazovia region of Ukraine has been carried out by a team of experts. Ukraine is developing a new lithium mineral resources base, according to the Ukrainian government. Ukraine is developing its own mineral resources base for rare-earth metals. The Ukrainian government has announced a major assessment of the country's resources and reserves of zirconium and hafnium. The Ukrainian state balance of mineral reserves has announced a significant increase in the amount of zirconium and other rare metals. Rhenium is one of the most important minerals in the world. Gold and metal reserves have been discovered in the Transcarpathia region of Ukraine. Ukrainian authorities have launched a series of investigations into the exploration of gold deposits in the Donets Basin. In our series of letters from African journalists, scientists and academics explain how platinum group metals are associated with exploration in Ukraine. In our series of letters from African journalists, scientists and academics look at the prospects for detecting industrial diamonds. The Ukrainian state balance of mineral reserves is being considered as part of efforts to improve the quality of non-metallic raw materials. Ukraine's exploration programme is a major step forward, according to the Ukrainian government. Ukraine's mineral resources are being assessed by the Ukrainian government. Since the beginning of the 1990s, Ukraine has become the world's first country to extract raw materials. In our series of letters from African journalists, scientists and academics examine the importance of serpentinite massifs. Ukraine's state balance of mineral reserves has revealed a significant number of deposits of disten-sillimanite. In our series of letters from African journalists, scientists and academics are looking at the importance of importing phosphorus raw materials from the Middle East. Scientists have developed a new method for obtaining phosphorous mineral fertilizers in agriculture in Ukraine. Ukraine is developing a new strategy to protect the country's natural resources. Scientists have announced a major revaluation of potash salt reserves in the Carpathian Basin. Ukrainian authorities are planning a series of search operations across the country, including exploration and development of amber products. Scientists are looking for a new type of raw material to help the sugar industry in Ukraine. Ukraine is planning a major development of ore deposits in the western and central regions of the country. In our series of letters from African journalists, scientists and academics look at the challenges facing the raw material industry in Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has outlined a range of measures aimed at improving the state balance of mineral reserves. The geological mapping of the territory of Ukraine is a key part of efforts to develop the country's natural resources. The second stage of Ukraine's geological mapping programme is expected to begin next month. Ukraine's geological and geophysical mapping work is being carried out by the Ukrainian government. The amount of underground water being developed in the southern and eastern regions of Ukraine has reached its lowest level since the 1990s. Ukraine's ecological and geological conditions have been significantly affected by a natural disaster. In our series of letters from African journalists, scientists and academics assess the impact of geological and geophysical processes on the Earth. Ukraine's strategy for developing geological exploration on the continental shelf of the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov has been published by the government of Ukraine. The Russian government has announced a major expansion of the Earth's exploration programme. The government of Ukraine has announced the creation of a hydrogen deformational bank and other geophysical data for the period up to 2030. The Global Geophysical Research Programme (GFP) has been launched in the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov. The Ukrainian government has announced the implementation of the 2015-16 Millennium Energy Programme. The programme includes a range of technologies, including technical and software information processing. The Ukrainian government has announced the introduction of the National Geophysical and Geological Programme. The Ukrainian government has announced the approval and implementation of the country's mineral resources Programme. Ukraine's government has announced a new programme to tackle the problem of mineral resources use in the Central African Republic (CIS). The Ukrainian government has announced the phased implementation of the nationwide mineral resources base development programme. Ukraine's government has announced its budget for the next three years.