The Law of Ukraine on Education is to be published on Wednesday. The European Higher Education System (ECTS) is a system of higher education which includes: The rules of the institution of higher education in England and Wales have been published by the Supreme Court. Here is a list of key facts. Crimea's government has published a list of key facts about higher education in the country. 1. The terms and conditions of the Law of Ukraine on Higher Education The Legislation of Ukraine on Higher Education has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers and the central executive authority for education and science. The government has published a list of key policies for higher education in England. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on higher education in the country. Here is a summary of the legislation. 1. The right to education Legislation on higher education in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. The qualifications and conditions of higher education in England have been published by the Ministry of Education. Here is a guide to how they are calculated. 1. Obtaining highest education at each level presupposes successful completion of an educational programme of 120 ECTS credits. The terms of the degrees granted by higher education institutions in England and Wales have been published by the Department of Education. Here is a guide to the process. Doctors of philosophy degrees could be awarded to academic institutions in the UK under educational programmes agreed with the government. The BBC outlines the rules and regulations for these qualifications. The government of Ukraine has announced the introduction of a doctor of arts degree. Here is the full text of the application process. The government of Ukraine has published a list of qualifications for those who have breached the academic integrity of the country's higher education system. The Ministry of Education has issued a statement which aims to prevent the cancellation of the grant of doctors of philosophy degrees. Academic plagiarism, fabrication or falsification could be deprived of the right to participate in training and attestation of applicants for a doctor of philosophy degree, according to the academic secretary. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on the issue of a joint document on higher education in the country. The Ministry of Education has published a list of key rules on higher education in Ukraine. This list contains the basic principles of the law. Following the introduction of the National Qualifications Framework, the government has published a list of educational components and qualifications for those who have successfully completed their studies. The Higher Education Law has been published by the National Executive Authority for Education and Science. Here is a summary of the law. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has approved the law on higher education in the country. Here is a list of key facts. 1. Higher Education Administration The Supreme Court of Ukraine has approved the powers of the Central Executive Authority for Education and Science. The government of Ukraine has published a list of key rules on how to establish and approve higher education standards. The law on higher education in Ukraine has been published by the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance. Here is a summary of the law's rules and procedures. The academic council of the institution of higher theological education in Ukraine has announced that it will be able to exercise the rights and obligations of its founder. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has published a draft law which aims to protect the rights and obligations of doctors and students studying at military institutions. Authorities in the autonomous Republic of Crimea and local governments in charge of the institutions of high education within their powers have announced a joint executive authority on higher education. Here are the rules and regulations being considered. The laws of the institution of higher education in Ukraine have been published by the Ministry of Education. Here is a guide to the law. 1. The system used by the institutions of higher education to ensure the quality of the educational activities conducted by independent entities is to be reviewed. The National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance has been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Here is the full text of the law. The National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance has been appointed by the Competition Committee of Ukraine. Here is a summary of the key steps taken in the law. The government of Ukraine has announced that it will appoint a number of representatives to the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance. Here is the full list of the nominees. The Competition Committee is to be appointed and dismissed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Competition Committee has been appointed to establish a committee which will decide whether to select candidates for the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance. The National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance has published its rules on its activities. Here is a guide to the law. The National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance is a non-profit organisation, which will be funded by the state and international authorities for higher education. Here is the outline of the legislation. The government of Ukraine has announced the amount of funds received from the state budget to support the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance. Here is a guide to the issue. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on licensing higher education activities in the country. The rules on licensing of higher educational activities in England have been published by the Ministry of Education. Here is a guide to the process. 1. Licence examination The executive authority for education and science has issued an order to cancel higher educational activities at a separated structural unit. The Higher Education Authority's decision to narrow the higher educational activities in England has been published by the Department of Education. The government's licensing authority has issued a raft of changes to the law on the re-issuance of license for higher education. Here is the full text of the rules. The Ministry of Education has issued a written application to secure the accreditation of educational programmes in Ukraine. Here is the guide to the process. The government of Ukraine has published a list of measures which could see the institution of higher education undergo institutional accreditation. The government has announced the establishment of the institution of higher education in England. Here is the full list of its objectives. The statute of the institutions of higher education has been published by the Ministry of Education. The statute of the institution of higher education in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed list of proposals for higher education in the country. The government of Ukraine has published the rules of the institution of higher education in the country. Here is a guide to the process. The Ukrainian government has published a law which makes it easier to establish institutions of higher education in the country. Here is the full text of the law. Following is a list of key steps to establishing higher education degrees in England: These are the key facts of the institution of higher education in England: The structure of the institutions of higher education in England has been revealed by the academic council. The government of Ukraine has ordered the establishment of a professional college in the country. Here are the key facts: The establishment, reorganisation and liquidation of clinical bases of medical institutions, university clinics and hospitals in Ukraine have been announced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has approved the establishment and liquidation of a military educational unit of the Institution of Higher Education. 1. The head of the institution of higher education The head of the institution of higher education in England has been appointed to a voluntary basis, according to the latest announcement from the government. The Department of Education is a military educational unit at the institution of higher education in England, which will be established for five years. The academic council has been appointed by the government authority for education and science. Following is a list of key steps to establishing the institution of higher education in England: 1. The academic council at the institution of higher education The Constitution of the Institution of Higher Education has been published by the Supreme Court. Here is a guide to the institution's membership in academic councils. The government has published the rules on recalling the head of the institution of higher education. Here is a guide to the process. The rules and procedures for the public self-government body at the institution of higher education have been published by the government. Here is a guide to the process. The government of Ukraine has published the rules of the institution of higher education. Here is a guide to the process. Student self-government is the institution of higher education in England, which makes it easier for students to choose their rights and interests. The government of the institution of higher education in England has published its rules on student self-government. The higher student self-government body is a representative and executive meeting of students (cadets) who would be required to approve their decisions. Students self-government bodies are to be given the powers of the academic council at the institutions of higher education in England. Here is a guide to the law. Scientific societies of students (cadets, trainees), postgraduate students, doctoral students and young scientists have been given the green light by the government. The government has published a list of rules on the establishment of the scientific society of students (cadets, trainees, postgraduate students, doctoral students and young scientists). Here is the list. Ukraine's Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional powers for the head of the institution of higher education. Here is a guide to the process. Elections for the head of the institution of higher education in England will be held on the seventh calendar day after the first round. Election results for the first round of the general election have been published by the Supreme Court. The head of the institution of higher education in Ukraine is to be recalled. Here is a guide to the process of recalling the head. The Department of Education has published the rules and conditions for the dismissal of the head of a higher education institution. Here are the key points. The Ukrainian government has published the rules for admission to higher education in the state and municipal educational institutions. A special period of admissions to military degrees is being held in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev. Ukrainian institutions of higher education halls have approved the admission rules for internally displaced people. A selection of the weights of applicant's competitive scores. The Admission Rules of the institutions of higher education aiming to receive the state order for training junior bachelors and masters of medicine, pharmacy or veterinary have been published. The admission rules for the institutions of higher education in England have been published by the Department of Education. The government of Ukraine has approved a new law to provide higher education to the followong people. This is a summary of the rules and conditions of admission to higher education in Ukraine. The government of Ukraine has announced that it will use independent external evaluations to admit applicants with special educational needs. Here is a summary of the rules and regulations being submitted to the government. 1. Assessments The rules for the independent external evaluation of learning results obtained during field-specific secondary education have been published. This is a summary of the rules surrounding the expulsion and transfer of higher education applicants. The Supreme Court has ruled that anyone expelled from the institution of higher education in Ukraine or abroad will be entitled to interrupt their studies. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on the process of expulsion, renewal and transfer of students studying at the institutions of higher education. The rules on how the institution of higher education takes control measures in English have been published. The Department of Education has published a list of the forms of higher education in England and Wales. Here are the rules and regulations on how they will work. The full list of educational process participants and conditions of on-the-job practising has been published. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed list of academic titles in the country. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed guide to the process of appointing and dismissing scientific- педагогical staff. Scientific- педагогical staff at the institutions of higher education of all property forms have been given the go-ahead by the government. The government has published a list of the rights of academic staff at the institutions of high education. Here is the full list. The Ukrainian government has published a list of rules on guarantees for scientists and other staff at the Institutions of Higher Education. The government has published a list of changes to the rules on postgraduate education and professional development. The Ministry of Education in Ukraine has announced that it will grant military status to certain categories of people studying at non-military institutions of higher education. The government has issued a statement to the public on the rights of doctors studying at the institutions of higher education. Here are some of the key facts. The executive authority for education and science in Ukraine has published a list of rules which apply to the higher education system. The government of Ukraine has announced a raft of changes to the rules on higher education in the country. 1. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has approved the law on higher education in the country. Here is a list of the rules and regulations announced by the government. The employment of graduates from the institutions of the higher education system has been announced by the Department of Education. Here is a guide to the process. Scientific, scientific-technical, artistic and innovative activities at the institutions of higher education in Ukraine have been announced by the government. The executive authority for education and science in Ukraine has published a draft of its rules on scientific, scientific-technical and innovative activities. Scientific, scientific-technical and innovative activities in Ukraine have been approved by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the process. The Department of Education has published a summary of its rules on the intellectual property rights of higher education institutions. The Ministry of Education has published a detailed list of the institutions of higher education in England and Wales. 1. The institutions of higher education, research institutions have the rights of economic management created at its own expense. The government of Ukraine has announced that it will establish a permanent fund and manage the revenues from its use in the country and abroad. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on how to fund state institutions of higher education in Crimea. The Ukrainian government has announced a new state order for training specialists with specialities and higher education levels. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree which makes it easier for the state and municipal institutions of higher education to ensure the safety and security of the country. Here are the key points. The costs of paid educational services in England and Wales have been announced by the government. Here is the outline of the terms and conditions of paying higher education services. The government of Ukraine has signed a contract with the European Higher Education Commission to increase the cost of training and additional educational services. The Ukrainian government has published the draft rules for international co-operation in higher education. The Ukrainian government has published a raft of laws related to the country's higher education system. Here is the full text of the rules. This is the full text of the Law on Higher Education in England and Wales, which will be published on 1 January 2016. The Law of Ukraine on Higher Education has outlined the rules and conditions of licensing for students with a junior bachelor educational professional degree. These are the key facts of the Law of Ukraine: The National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance has published a raft of changes to the Law on Education in Ukraine. The Higher Education Authority has published a list of rules which apply to the heads of colleges, faculties and departments established in the organisational and legal form of societies. The government of Ukraine has published a list of rules which could mean the introduction of the law on higher education in the country. 1. The land code of Ukraine shall be declared invalid. 1. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will prepare and submit for consideration a draft of the law on vocational education in the areas of Donetsk and Luhansk. Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a draft law which aims to ensure the constitutional right to education of people with special educational needs. Here is the full text of the law. The introduction of a new law on higher education in Ukraine has been published by the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance. Here is the full text of the law.