The Law of Ukraine has been published by the Supreme Court. The National Security and Territorial Authority (NSA) has published a list of rules on access to public information. The government of Ukraine has issued a statement to the public authorities in which it says it will not restrict access to information about spending units and recipients of budget funds. The Ministry of Defence has published a list of rules on accessing secret information. The scope of information about a person, which is gathered, stored and used by information administrators, must be limited to the maximum extent possible. The government of Ukraine has published a list of rules on access to public information in the form of open data. The Republic of Crimea has published a law which makes it publicly available to requesters of information. This is a full list of the laws which apply to information administrators in England and Wales. Here are the key points. 1. Information provided for by part 1 The Ukrainian Parliament has published the rules on making information publicly available without delay. The rules on access to public information in England and Wales have been published by the Ministry of Justice. Here is a list of key points. The government has published a guide to how information requests are submitted and how they can be processed. Here are the rules for the process. Authorities in Ukraine have issued a detailed explanation of the law which makes it easier for information administrators to pay expenses on copying and printing. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has decided to postpone satisfaction of the requested information request by the information administrator. Here is a guide to how to appeal against the decision. The Law on Information Regulations of Ukraine has come into force in the wake of the publication of a new law which aims to protect information provided by information administrators. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the draft laws of the country following the enactment of a new law. Here is the full text: