The Republic of Crimea has signed a law on state supervision (oversight) in the area of commercial activity. The Law of Ukraine on supervision in the field of commercial activities has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the Law. The Ukrainian government has published a law on state supervision in the field of food safety, food quality and veterinary medicine. Authorities in Ukraine have published the draft rules on the supervision of bodies and their regional branches in the field of blood and blood components. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree in favour of the implementation of state supervision (oversight) measures in Ukraine. Here is the full list of key points. 1. Business entities could be suspended if they are built into an implementation plan of state supervision (oversight) authorities. The suspension of state supervision (oversight) measures by business entities could be suspended by the Court of Appeal. The regulation of state supervision (oversight) measures in England and Wales has been published by the government. Here is a guide to the law. 1. Data containing information with restricted access to the integrated automated system of state supervision (oversight) The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has announced a raft of measures aimed at protecting the state supervision (oversight) system in the country. Here are the key points. The rules on the regulation of state supervision (oversight) measures in England and Wales have been published by the government. Here is a guide to the process. The draft plan for the implementation of comprehensive state supervision (oversight) measures has been published. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules and regulations for the state supervision (oversight) authorities in the area of commercial activity, licensing and permit system. Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers has approved the rules of conducting state supervision (oversight) of business entities. The rules on how state supervision (oversight) authorities are conducting planned measures have been published by the government. Here is a guide to the issue. The introduction of a series of ad hoc measures in England and Wales is being considered by the central executive authority. A special measure of state supervision (oversight) measures in Ukraine is being implemented by the government. The rules on the conduct of ad hoc measures in England and Wales have been published by the Department of State supervision (oversight) Authority. The executives of a business entities in Northern Ireland are being asked to submit their certificates to the state supervision (oversight) authority. Here are five key points. A writ is a written requirement by an official of the state supervision (oversight) authority to eliminate irregularities identified in the course of inspections. Here is the full list of key facts. 1. Writ A directive or other administrative document issued by a state supervision (oversight) authority on the elimination of violations found in the course of the conduct of an inspection, audit, examination and overlook measures has been published. The rules and responsibilities of the state supervision (oversight) authority in the area of commercial activity in England and Wales have been published by the Department of State Services. Here are the key points. 1. In the course of state supervision (oversight) measures conduct The executive authority has published a list of rules on the conduct of state supervision (oversight) authorities in England and Wales. Here is the full text of the latest steps to tackle the issue. 1. The government of Ukraine has issued a law to compensate those affected by the conduct of state supervision (oversight) measures in the country. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a statement in which the country's executive authorities have been given the powers to implement state supervision measures in the area of commercial activity. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has issued a statement in which it describes the rights and liabilities of business entities. A list of key facts in the law surrounding state supervision (oversight) acts: The rules and regulations surrounding state supervision (oversight) in England and Wales have been published by the Department of State Services. Here is a guide to the law. The principles of sanctions imposed on business entities and officials of the state supervision (oversight) authority have been outlined in the latest sections of The Law. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules on the collection of products samples. Here is a guide to the process. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules on the collection, delivery and expertise (testing) of products samples. Here is the full text of the act. The rules and regulations surrounding the conduct of state supervision (oversight) authorities in England and Wales have been published. Here is a guide to the law. The Law on supervision of business entities in Ukraine has come into force. Here is the full text of the law. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has approved the introduction of a new law on taxation, accounting and reporting of small business enterprises. Here is the full text of the law. 1. Measures to protect business entities by level of risk