The Law of Ukraine - which includes the status of the temporarily occupied territory of Ukrainians, including those in the armed aggression against the Russian Federation. The Constitution of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of the Law on the temporarily occupied territory. The Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights has announced a raft of measures aimed at protecting human rights and freedoms in the temporarily occupied territory of the Russian Federation. 1. Registration of certificates confirming their place of stay The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has announced a raft of measures to ensure the rights of foreigners and stateless people living within the temporarily occupied territory. The Ukrainian authorities have published the rules on the provision of a compulsory form of education in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. The Central Election Commission of Ukraine has published a list of rules on how to exercise the right to vote in elections or all-Ukrainian referendums. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a list of the laws which will be enforced within the temporarily occupied territory of Crimea. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered the creation of a state registration body for real rights to inheritance and their encumbrances within the temporarily occupied territory. This is a full summary of the rules and principles surrounding the legal response measures in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. The Court of Appeal of the Ukrainian city of Kyiv has ordered a judicial review of administrative proceedings in Crimea and Sevastopol. The Court of Appeal in Crimea has issued a statement of claim, which could be transferred to another local general court. The Law of Crimea and Sevastopol - which makes it easier for foreign citizens and non-residents to appear before a court in the territory where they are suspected of criminal offences. The Court of Appeal in Ukraine has published the rules on which parties to the case are summoned to court and notification of a court decision. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published a summary of the rules on military service in Ukraine. Military personnel of military formations and law enforcement agencies of Ukraine who served in Crimea and Sevastopol have the right to privatise duly received residential premises. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered the immediate resignation of judges who have been temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation. The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, No. 25-26, has published a new law which makes it invalid. 1. The actions provided for in part 1 or 2 of the Article 114 following: The government has published a further amendment to the laws of Ukraine's border agreement. Here is the full text of the law. A further amendment to the law on the border between Ukraine and Ukraine: The amendments to the Constitution have been published: Foreigners and stateless persons who have arrived at checkpoints at the state border of Ukraine without an appropriate permit will be allowed to return to the temporarily occupied territory following the changes in the law. Foreigners and stateless persons will be banned from entering the territory of Ukraine until their return. Crimes committed by legal entities could be recognised as crimes provided for by the law of Ukraine. The Court of Human Rights in Ukraine has published the latest chapter in the law which makes it easier to apply criminal law measures. The Supreme Court in Ukraine has published a new chapter in the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The Law of Ukraine on Ensuring Citizens' Rights and Freedoms and the Legal Regime on Temporarily Occupied Territory has come into force in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev. President Viktor Yanukovych has been sworn in as president of Ukraine.