The Law of Ukraine has been published by the European Court of Human Rights. The Ukrainian government has published a list of rules which could mean the introduction of the country's customs legislation. The Ukrainian government has published its draft proposals for the construction of a power plant in Ukraine. The Law of Ukraine on Energy Cooperation and Electronic Platform Operator (Epl) is based on the Constitution of the country and consists of laws governing relations between the two countries. The law includes a quota of support for business entities producing electricity from alternative energy sources. The Constitution of Ukraine has published the principles of state policy in the field of alternative energy sources. The Ministry of Energy of Ukraine has announced the introduction of a new law in the field of alternative energy sources. The government of Ukraine has published a draft of the law on energy saving and environmental protection, which aims to stimulate the use of energy from alternative sources to the unified energy system. The Law on the origin of electricity produced from alternative energy sources in Ukraine has been published. The Law of Ukraine “On Electricity Market” has concluded electricity sale contracts at a “green” tariff until 31 December 2019. The tariffs for electricity generated from wind and solar energy have been announced by the Energy Regulatory Commission. The tariffs for business entities producing electricity from solar energy have been announced by the government. The tariffs for electricity produced by consumers of the second voltage class have been announced. The tariffs for electricity generated by households operating hydroelectric power plants are to be set at the level of the retail  тарифs. The Ukrainian government has issued a declaration on the readiness of the electric power facility for operation. The National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission has published the rules of the country's electricity tariffs. The Ukrainian government has published a new law which aims to guarantee the level of use of the equipment produced in the country. Ukraine will guarantee the validity of the entire “green” tariff for the purchase of electricity generated at the commissioned power plants. This article has been published by the National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission. The amount of electricity produced in Ukraine has been calculated by the Ukrainian government. The Ukrainian authorities have issued a certificates of origin to the owners of the wind energy facility in the capital Kiev. Ukraine's government has announced a voluntary auction of electricity supplies for businesses developing renewable energy facilities. The government of Ukraine has announced a raft of measures in the field of the renewable energy sector. Ukraine's government has approved auction rules for the distribution of support quotas for hydroelectricity sources. The government of Ukraine has approved a voluntary application for the auction of electronic platforms. The auction of the right to support for electricity from wind energy and solar energy will be held in January 2024. Ukraine's government has ordered an auction for the distribution of electricity from other alternative energy sources. The auction agreement between the winners and the business entities which acquired the right to support as a result of an electricity sale contract has been drawn up and published in electronic form. A guaranteed buyer could be denied the right to participate in further auctiones under the new law of Ukraine. The auction of electricity for business entities which have not acquired the right to support as a result of the contract between the winners and guaranteed buyers is being held in Ukraine. The auction winner's obligations for the construction and commissioning of a solar energy facility have been guaranteed by the business equity firm which runs the company. The business entities that have acquired the right to support for the construction and commissioning of a Ukrainian nuclear power facility have been given the go-ahead by the European Union. The terms of providing support for business entities producing electricity from alternative energy sources have been published by the Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission. Business entities producing electricity from wind energy at solar power facilities or their complexes with an installed capacity of up to 1 MW have been given the highest levels of approval. A “green” electrometallurgy enterprise is a legal entity engaged in steel production business in compliance with the standards on direct carbon dioxide emissions from steel products and exclusively by electric arc production method. The tariffs for the use of alternative energy sources in Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. The Energy Community has published the rules of exploitation of energy from renewable energy sources and alternative fuels. The Law on Emergency Protection and Environmental Safety when using alternative energy sources in Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ukraine's President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a draft law on the development of alternative energy.