The Law of Ukraine has been published by the Supreme Court. The fishery technology reservoir is a complex structure designed to control water resources without intensification means use. Ukrainian authorities have issued a statement which describes how quarantine fishery isolators are carried out. Aquaculture is a form of fishing and recreation which has been established in the 1970s and 1980s. This describes how intensive and semi-intensive forms of aquaculture are carried out. Fishery farming and improvements are a range of ways to improve the quality of aquaculture objects. 1. Fishery work in the field of aquaculture The Law of Ukraine on Aquaculture has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. The government has published a raft of laws aimed at improving the environment in the field of aquaculture. The Ukrainian government has published its latest rules on the rights and obligations of aquaculture objects. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree to approve the use of part of the fishery water object in the region of Ukraine. Here is the full list of powers given to the government. The powers of the Central Executive Authority that implements the state policy in the field of fishery have been published by the Ukrainian government. The Ukrainian government has published a detailed list of powers in the field of aquaculture. The Ukrainian government has published the rules on the use of water objects in the field of fishery. 1. Fishery technology reservoirs The government of Ukraine has approved the terms of the use of water areas (water space) inland sea waters, fishery technology reservoir on lease terms. The Lessee of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of its lease contract. Ukraine’s agriculture laws have been published by the Ministry of Veterinary Medicine. Here is a guide to the practices of importing live fish into the country, fertilised caviar and other hydrobionts. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree which aims to approve the introduction and implementation of fishing improvements in the field of aquaculture. Here is the full list of the measures. Scientific and biological rationale - which aims to ensure prevention of negative impact on the state of populations of aboriginal species of hydrobionts in the field of aquaculture. Scientific and biological substantiation of the species of hydrobiont in the field of fishery has been published by the government. Authorities in Ukraine have issued a statement in which they describe the progress of the country's aquaculture industry. The Law on Agriculture in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a list of the key areas involved in the law. The Ukrainian government has published the Water Code of Ukraine. Here is the full text of the law. The lease contract for water objects in Ukraine has been dissolved. The lease contract of a water object, fishery technological reservoirs, water areas of inland seawaters and water space of the exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine, has been published by the government. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published a draft of its laws on fishing, industrial fishery and protection of aquatic bio resources. Here is the full text: President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a law allowing the introduction of constitutional laws in Ukraine.