The Law of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. The government has issued a statement which includes the terms and conditions of the use of oil and gas subsoil in Ukraine. Oil and gas subsoil users have been given approval by the British government. Here is the full list of those applying for the use of oil, petroleum products and liquefied gas. The government has issued a snapshot of the terms and conditions of oil and gas field development and exploratory operations. The Ukrainian government has published a new law on relations between oil, gas and refined products in the territory of Ukraine. Here is the full text of the law. 1. Regulations The government has issued a statement to the public on the regulation of relations in the oil and gas industry. The government of Ukraine has published the rules for the sale of crude oil and natural-gas condensate. The government has published the principles of the purchase and sale agreements in the oil and gas industry. Here is a guide to the issue. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree which aims to ensure the integrity and efficiency of the Unified Gas Transmission System of Ukraine. Here is the full text of these laws. The Scottish government has published the rules of state regulation in the oil and gas industry. Here is a guide to the powers of local self-government authorities. The Ukrainian government has published a law allowing the use of oil and gas potential subsoil in the territory of Ukraine. The principles of issuing special permits for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil in England and Wales have been published by the government. The government has published the terms of tenders for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil. The government of Ukraine has published the terms and conditions of issuing special permits for the creation and use of oil and gas potential subsoil. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed outline of the rules surrounding the use of oil and gas subsoil. The terms of the use of subsoil in Ukraine have been published by the government. The law on the use of oil and gas subsoil in Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers. The law on the use of oil and gas potential subsoil within the territorial sea and the exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine has been published. The Ukrainian government has reached an agreement on the conditions of use of the oil and gas potential subsoil area located within the territorial sea and the exclusive (marine) economic zone of Ukraine. A special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil could be temporarily suspended exclusively in the case of a violation of the established procedure for their receipt. The suspension of a special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil in England and Wales has been announced by the government. The government's decision to revoke a special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil has been published by the Treasury. The agreement on conditions of use of oil and gas potential subsoil has been published by the government. The government has issued a written notice to the public in the field of geological study of oil and gas potential subsoil. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed guide to the process of exploration works on oil and gas fields in the country. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the process of commissioning oil and gas fields into commercial development. The government has published the rules for the commercial development of oil and gas fields in England and Wales. Here is the full text of the legislation. The Ministry of Energy has published the rules and regulations on the use of oil and gas potential subsoil in Ukraine. Here is the full text of the new laws. The government of Ukraine has published the latest rules on the process of construction and operation of underground storage tanks for oil, gas and refined products. Ukraine's Unified Gas Transmission System has been approved by the Ukrainian government. The Unified Gas Transmission System of Ukraine has published its rules on environmental safety. The government of Ukraine has published a detailed outline of the rules on the use of subsoil in the oil and gas industry. The government of Ukraine has announced a raft of changes to the law governing the oil and gas industry. The Law of Ukraine "On Oil and Gas" has been published by the Ukrainian government. The President of Ukraine L. KUCHMA City of Kyiv has asked the Ukrainian government to submit proposals to bring the law on oil and gas into law.