The European Union has published the draft law on road transport in Ukraine. A list of bus routes in Ukraine: Traffic schedule, cargo and contracting parties - these are some of the key documents being considered by the government of Ukraine. Passengers and cargos are among the types of vehicles being used to transport passengers in the UK. A list of key facts about dangerous cargo in Ukraine: Transport of passengers in express and regular traffic mode A list of key facts about the road transport system in England and Wales: The law on road transport in Ukraine includes the introduction of a vehicle of special appointment and third countries defined by the country of non-resident and resident. The Road Transport Law has been published by the Ministry of Transport. Here is the full text of the law. The government regulation and control in the sphere of road transport is a key part of the country's government policy. The President of Ukraine, Petro Poroshenko, has announced a raft of powers in the field of transport. The Central Executive Authority of Ukraine has been appointed to carry out the implementation of state policy on safety in land transport in the field of international road transport. The Ukrainian government has announced that it will carry out detailed inspections of road carriers on the territory of Ukraine. The government of Ukraine has ordered the immediate inspection of public buses and cargos in the capital, Kiev. Here is a guide to the issue of road transport safety. The Department of Transport has published the introduction of a licensing policy on road transport. Here is the full text of the policy. The government of Ukraine has approved the unified tariff policy for road transport. The government of Crimea has issued a statement to the authorities in the region which approve the development of public bus routes. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has published a statement in which it describes the country's policy on road transport. Drivers of vehicles in Ukraine are being regulated by the Ministry of Labour. The design and technical state of vehicles used during the performance of international transport in Ukraine has been published by the government. The Ministry of Transport has published the rules on the international transportation of dangerous cargos, including documents on admission to vehicles. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree on the rules of maintenance and repair of cars and services provided by him. The terms and conditions of the contract on maintenance and repair of vehicles have been published by the government. The owners of bus stations and taxi stands in England and Wales have been told they will have the right to carry out maintenance and repair work under the contract. The government has published the principles of road carrier activity in England and Wales. Self-employed road carriers are required to provide the necessary technical and sanitary state of buses and taxi before they arrive in the UK. Here is the full list of those required. The terms and conditions of public bus routes in England and Wales have been published by the Department of Transport. The introduction of the road carrier laws in Ukraine has been published by the Ministry of Transport. The Department of Transport has issued a statement which describes the responsibility of road transport managers and specialists. The rules of public transport in Ukraine have been published by the Central Executive Authority. Bus stations and road carriers are responsible for the quality and safety of services provided to passengers, according to the Ministry of Transport. The rules for the organisation of groups of children are published by the Ukrainian government. Documents, necessary for regular special passenger transportation in Ukraine: Documents for the driver of the bus, taxi, ordered car, car when transporting passengers. Taxi drivers have a right to refuse passengers in services provision. The executive authorities and the road carrier have signed a joint agreement on the rights and obligations of passengers on public bus routes. The terms of determination of road carriers on a public bus route have been published by the Ministry of Transport. The terms of the tender for passenger  transport have been published by the government. The Ministry of Transport has announced a tender committee for the determination of the public bus route in Ukraine. The Ministry of Transport has published the rules for the use of buses on intercity and international bus routes in Ukraine. The Ministry of Transport has published the rules of cargo transportation by vehicles. The rights and obligations of the driver of a vehicle have been published by the Ukrainian government. The rights and obligations of the executor under the contract on cargo transportation by road transport have been published by the Department of Transport. The Ministry of Transport has published the rules on the international transportation of passengers and cargo. The Central Executive Authority of Ukraine has published a list of key documents for the vehicles, performing international transportation of passengers and cargos. The European Commission has published the terms and conditions of international road transportation by foreign carriers on the territory of Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has published the latest laws on the international passenger road transportation. Here is the full text of the law. President Viktor Yanukovych has announced the introduction of a new law designed to protect international passengers and cargos. The law on road transport in Ukraine has been published by the country's central executive authority. Ukraine's government has published a raft of fines for breaches of transport legislation, including those in the country. The law on land transport safety in Ukraine has come into effect. The Ukrainian government has published a new law which requires road carriers and self-employed drivers to be fined for breaching their obligation to verify before the start of passenger international journeys.