The Law of Ukraine on charity work has been published by the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs. The law on charity work and charitable organisations in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. The Constitution of Ukraine has published the rules of the country's military capability and emergency readiness. The law on charity work in Ukraine has come into force. Here is a guide to the law. The law on charitable donations in England and Wales has been published. Here is a guide to the law. The Law on Public Fundraising in Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The rules on the use of charitable telecommunication messages among subscribers have been published. The agreement between the telecommunication operator and a non-profit organisation has been published by the Ministry of Communications. The government has published the principles and conditions of charitable organisations. Here is a guide to the law. The Law and other laws of Ukraine have been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the process of establishing charitable organisations. The government of Ukraine has published the rules and regulations of charitable organisations. Here is a guide to the process. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on how charitable organisations should be regulated. Here is a guide to the process. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered the immediate withdrawal of the assets of charitable organisations. Here is a guide to the process of liquidation. The executive authority and the supervisory board of charity societies and cCharity foundations have been given the powers of the general meeting of participants. Here is a guide to the process. The Supreme governing body of charitable organisations has published its charters. Here is a guide to the law. The new law on charity work in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. 1. The Law of Ukraine on Charity and Charitable Organisations The new law on charity and charitable organisations in Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the change. The law on charity work and charitable organisations in Ukraine has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych has been sworn in as president of Ukraine.