The Citizenship Law of Ukraine has been published by the Supreme Court. Foreign citizenship - a written statement of foreigners and stateless people who have registered their passports on the territory of Ukraine on Legal Grounds. Foreign citizenship - a foreigner, who is refused to leave Ukraine, is not able to return to the country. The law on citizenship of Ukraine is based on the basic principles of the law, including the declaration of renunciation of foreign citizens. Citizens of Ukraine - including those who have become citizens of the former USSR in the 1970s and 80s, have been given citizenship of their country. Here is a summary of what happened to them. The Citizenship of Ukraine has been issued by the Ukrainian government. Here is a guide to the issue. Citizenship of Ukraine by Territorial Origin Foreigners who have been granted temporary residence permits until 24 August 1991 should be registered as a citizen of Ukraine as well as his/her underage children. Foreigners who have submitted an obligation to terminate their foreign citizenship are to be registered as citizens of Ukraine. The government of Ukraine has issued a declaration on renewal of foreign citizenship. Foreign citizenship restrictions in the territory of Ukraine have been announced by President Viktor Yanukovych. The Ukrainian government has announced the terms of the temporary residence of foreigners and stateless people who have been granted refugee status in Ukraine. Foreigners and stateless persons who have received temporary residence permits in Ukraine without taking into account the requirement provided by the Law of Ukraine. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ruled that foreigners and stateless persons who have acquired the citizenship of the country should be registered as citizens. The citizenship of a foreigner who has been granted asylum in Ukraine and submitted an application for renewal of its citizens' status to another state is to be revoked. The Citizenship of Ukraine will not be renewed for those who have lost their citizenship due to its acquisition by fraud or deliberate submission of false information. The European Court of Human Rights has ruled that the citizenship of Ukraine is to be acquired by a foreigner. The European Court of Human Rights has ordered the acquire of the citizenship of Ukraine by a foreigner or stateless person. The Citizenship of Ukraine is to be acquired by a foreigner or stateless person. The Supreme Court has ruled that a child born in Ukraine, whose father is foreigner or stateless, should be acquired the citizenship of Ukraine. The Citizenship of Ukraine is to be withdrawn by the parents of children aged 14 to 18 without their consent. Withdrawal from the citizenship of Ukraine could take place with their consent only. The law on withdrawal from the citizenship of Ukraine has come into effect. The Constitution of Ukraine has published a list of the powers of those involved in the making decisions on citizenship. The central executive authority implementing state policy on citizenship of Ukraine has been given the powers to: The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has ordered the authorities to issue certificates of citizenship to those who have been granted passports. The government of Ukraine has published a list of steps to implement the citizenship law in the country. The Law on Appeals against Decisions on Citizenship 1. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will prepare and submit proposals on bringing the laws of the country in line with the law.