The Law of Ukraine on Permitting activities in the field of nuclear energy use has been published on Wednesday. A list of key facts about the life cycle of the nuclear facility or radioactive waste storage facilities: The Law on Nuclear Energy Regulations has been published by the Ministry of Energy. Here is a list of key facts about the law. The nuclear and radiation safety law has been published by the Ministry of Defence. Here is the full text of the Law. The Scottish government has published the rules and regulations on permitting activity in the field of nuclear energy use. The scope of the law is to be considered by the States. Ukraine's nuclear safety law has been published by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A licence for nuclear facilities and radioactive waste storage facilities is being issued by the operating organisation of the facility. Ukraine's nuclear power plant is to be given the go-ahead by the government. This is the full text of the law which makes it easier to license the activities in the field of nuclear energy use. A preliminary review of nuclear and radiation safety documents submitted to the US state regulatory body has been published. The nuclear licence issued by the US state regulatory body has been published in the New York Times. Here is a guide to the issue. The government of Ukraine has approved the issue of licences in the field of nuclear energy use. The licence for the use of nuclear material, radioactive waste and other radiation sources in England and Wales has been issued by the US government. A licence issued to a joint-stock company without changing the name or place of residence is to be re-issued. The application for amendments to a nuclear licence in the US has been published by the government. Here is the full text of the law. Two licences for nuclear and radiation safety are to be revoked. A nuclear licence revoking is a legal requirement in the US state of Connecticut, according to the Ministry of Nuclear Safety. The Northern Ireland nuclear regulatory body has issued an application for a duplicate licence to the process owners. A list of documents submitted by process owners in the field of nuclear energy use is to be published by the US government. The law on the use of nuclear power and radiation safety in Ukraine has come into force. The operators of nuclear facilities and radioactive waste storage facilities in Ukraine have been appointed by the government. Ukraine's National Nuclear Safety Agency (NNPC) has announced that it will pay the cost of electric power production to nuclear workers.