The Law of Ukraine has been published by the European Commission on Securities and Stock Market. The European Commission has published a list of rules and regulations for the collective investment institutions. Here is the list: The terms and conditions of the legal activity of legal entities in England and Wales: The Treasury Commission has published the rules and regulations of collective investment institutions. Here is the full text of the Law. The rules on the acquisition of significant interests in a financial institution have been published by the government. Here is the guide to the process. The European Commission has published the rules for the registration of collective investment institutions in Ukraine. Here is a guide to the process. The European Commission has published the rules for the registration of collective investment institutions in the register. Here is a guide to the process. 1. The collective investment institution may be closed, fixed-term or perpetual. The collective investment institution is to be extended for a further three years. The Securities Commission has published a list of asset classes which the Competition and Markets Commission may introduce. The Treasury has published the latest chapter in the law which makes it easier to identify collective investment institutions. The Bank of England has announced that it will establish a collective investment institution, which will be established by the day it is entered into the register. Here are the rules and regulations for corporate funds. The terms of the establishment of a corporate fund have been published by the government. Here are the key points to the process. The Treasury Commission has published a series of documents which could lead to the establishment of the Royal Bank of England's corporate fund. The European Commission has published the list of corporate funds established by the country's financial regulators. This article contains a detailed guide to the corporate fund charter. The rules of the corporate fund have been published by the European Commission. Here is a guide to how they are handled. The European Commission has published the rules for corporate funds in England and Wales. Here is a guide to the process. The European Commission has published the terms and conditions of the corporate fund agreements. Here is a guide to how it will work. The government has published the rules and regulations of the general meetings at the Royal Bank of Scotland. Here is a guide to the process. The Treasury has published a list of proposals for the general meeting of the collective investment institution. Here is the guide to the process. The rules on the depository system for corporate funds have been published by the Treasury Commission. Here is a guide to the process. The general meeting of the participants of a corporate fund will be held in the territory of Ukraine within the limits to the Settlement on the stock exchange. Here is the guide to holding the meeting. The government has published the rules and conditions of the extraordinary general meeting at the Royal Bank of England. Here is a guide to the process. The corporate fund’s rules and regulations have been published by the Court of Appeal. The chairman of the supervisory board of a corporate fund has issued the right to vote at the general meeting of his/her choice. Here is the guide to the process. 1. The registration of participants of the corporate fund (their representatives) The corporate fund’s terms and conditions have been published by the European Commission. Here is a guide to the process of voting at the general meeting. The corporate fund's general meeting has been announced by the chairman of the registration committee. The rules for the general meeting on the liquidation of the fixed-term corporate fund have been published by the government. The electoral commission has issued a notice to the public in the wake of the general meeting on the election of members of its supervisory board. The counting commission has been elected by the general meeting of the supervisory board. Here is a guide to how voting takes place. The corporate fund's annual general meeting has been announced by the chairperson and secretary of the supervisory board. Following the introduction of the assets service agreement, the government has published a series of rules on how to convene an extraordinary general meeting. The supervisory board of the Royal Bank of Scotland has published the rules on holding an extraordinary general meeting. Here is a guide to the issue. 1. Elections of the general meeting will be adopted by polling method The electoral process for the general meeting of the chief executive of Northern Ireland's Competition Commission has been published. Here is a guide to the process. The corporate fund’s rules on the process of voting in the general meeting have been published. The counting of votes of participants of the corporate fund in Northern Ireland will be counted by a commission. The rules of the general meeting of one-person corporate fund have been published by the Treasury Secretary. The corporate fund supervisory board is responsible for approval of proposals to hold ordinary and extraordinary general meetings. Here is the full text of Article 34 hereof. The government has published a list of key rules for the supervisory board of the Royal Bank of England. The Treasury Secretary has published a draft charter for the supervisory board of the Royal Bank of England. Here is the full list of key points. The European Commission on the securities market has published a charter for the meeting of the supervisory board at the Royal Bank of Scotland. Here are the key points. The charter of the corporate fund has been published by the government. Here is a guide to the process. The liquidation of the corporate fund in England and Wales will be carried out within one month of its expiry. This is a guide to the process. The corporate fund is a financial institution, which has been closed by the Treasury and the Bank of England until the end of the year. Here is the full list of rules and procedures being considered. The liquidation commission has published the rules on the distribution of assets of a corporate fund in the event of it being removed from the register. The Treasury has published the rules for the distribution of assets other than funds of a corporate fund. The Treasury Authority has published the rules for the issue of investment certificates. Here is a guide to the process. The rules of the unit fund have been published by the Treasury Commission. Following the publication of the rules on the liquidation of a fixed-term unit fund, the Commission has issued an explanation to the public about the issue of investment certificates. The liquidation commission in Ukraine has published the rules for the distribution of assets of the unit fund. The assets of the collective investment institution have been revealed by the European Commission. Here is a guide to the process of settlement. 1. The value of the assets of a collective investment institution in the state-collaterised securities The assets of a venture capital fund have been revealed by the Financial Conduct Authority. The assets of a special state securities fund in Ukraine will be disallowed by the European Commission. Here is the full list of the assets referred to in this part. The asset structure of a specialised bond fund will meet the following rules: The assets of foreign exchange index funds have been revealed by the Treasury Commission. Here is a guide to the structure of the assets. The European Commission has published the list of stock exchange index funds and its calculation method. The European Commission has announced a raft of changes to its rules on the sale of securities. The European Commission has published a list of key financial rules for the collective investment institution. Here is the full list. The European Commission has published a detailed list of laws governing the collective investment institution. The Treasury Commission has published a list of rules on the collective investment institution in England and Wales. The collective investment institution is to receive approval from the European Commission. Here are the key steps to register it. 1. Amendments to the prospectus for issue of securities The European Commission has published the rules for refusing to register shares of a corporate fund, for issue of securities, and amendments thereto. The terms of the issue of shares in a collective investment institution have been published by the Treasury Secretary. Here is the full list of key rules and procedures. The assets of the collective investment institution are to be placed at a price based on their nominal value, according to the Commission. The Treasury Commission has issued a settlement application for the issue of investment certificates of the collective investment institution. The European Commission has published the rules on the return of funds to a collective investment institution. Here is the guide to the process. The European Commission has published the terms of the acquisition and redemption of investment certificates of collective investment institutions. The Treasury Commission has published the rules for early redemption of the securities of collective investment institutions in England and Wales. The Securities Commission has published the rules for early redemption of the securities of a collective investment institution. Here is the guide to the issue. The European Commission has issued a notice of suspension of the placement and redemption of securities of two collective investment institutions. The Securities Exchange Commission has published the rules on the process of conversion of securities of individual investment institutions into corporate funds. The asset management company is a joint-stock company or limited liability company, according to the European Commission. The asset management company of the collective investment institution has been issued with a deadline of three weeks. Here is the full list of restrictions. The Treasury Commission has published a list of rules which apply to the collective investment institution. Here are the key points. The assets of the collective investment institution at the Royal Bank of England are to be managed under a licence issued by the European Commission. Here are the key facts. The assets of the collective investment institution of public placement are to be held in the depository system, according to a new law. The Bank of England's collective investment institution is to be allowed to carry out its own operations within three months of the date on which the credit rating level is lowered or lost its validity. The assets of the collective investment institution have been revealed by the Securities and Investments Commission. The Bank of England has published the terms and conditions of its service agreement with the collective investment institution. The terms and conditions of the collective investment institution in Ukraine have been published by the European Commission. Here is a guide to the process. The Commission on the securities market has published a list of essential terms and conditions for the collective investment institution. The European Commission has published the rules for the disclosure of information on institutional investors in the stock market. 1. The asset management company managing the assets of a collective investment institution shall be required to disclose the content of this article. The Law of Ukraine on the Securities Market in Ukraine has come into force on 1 January 2014, with the aim of regulating the collective investment institution. 1. The law on collective investment institutions (unit and corporate investment funds) The amendments to the law on securities and stock market have been published by the Ukrainian government. The law on securities conversion in Ukraine has been published by the National Commission on Securities and Stock Market. Here is a guide to the law. The Treasury Secretary John Wright has published a summary of the rules on collective investment institutions in England and Wales. The introduction of a new law on investment certificates in Ukraine has been published by the National Commission on Investment Funds and Investment Companies. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has signed a decree on the introduction of the law on investment funds and investment companies. Here is the full text of its rules. The executives of Ukraine's corporate fund have been ordered to hold a general meeting remotely during the coronavirus pandemic. Here are some of the key rules and regulations being considered by the Cabinet of Ministers. The government of Ukraine has approved the annual report of the Unit Fund for Fiscal Studies.