Legislation of Ukraine on cinematography has been published by the Ukrainian government. A list of key facts in the Ukrainian film industry: The National Film Law is a law which allows the film to use other languages in the main (basic) version of the audio. A list of key facts in the film industry: preparatory period of film-making, entrepreneurship in cinematography and film promotion The film project - the film-making period within which a film is in any way directly or indirectly offered to the audience This is a summary of the main principles of cinematography in Ukraine. 1. Film The executive authorities in Ukraine have approved the rules on film distribution and screening in the field of cinematography. The government of Ukraine has published the draft laws on how it will implement its state policy in the field of cinematography. Following is a list of key steps being taken by the Ukrainian government in the field of cinematography: The Ukrainian government has published the draft rules on the establishment of specialist film commissions and other powers provided for in the law. The film commission in Ukraine has been appointed by the local government. Here is the full text of the decision. The government of Ukraine has issued a statement which outlines the terms and conditions of the privatisation of state film studios. A selection of the evaluative elements for film creation in Ukraine: 1) secondary role (a team of technical shooting support) The Ukrainian government has published a law which makes it easier to identify the roles of film producers and film-makers. This is a full transcript of the film credits ( captions) created in Ukraine. The right to distribute and screen films on all types of image carriers in Ukraine has been issued. The law on the right to distribute and screen films containing popularisation of the Soviet state's authorities has been published. The rules on broadcasting of films containing the popularisation and propaganda of the Soviet authorities and their separate actions have been published. The Ukrainian government has published a law which aims to protect the territory of Ukraine from abuse of the country. The executive authority in charge of film-making in Ukraine has published a detailed outline of the rules and regulations on film making. The Ukrainian government has announced the creation of an archival set of source materials of national films and films created outside Ukraine. The Central Executive Authority of Ukraine has published the rules of the country's cinematographic policy. Here is a guide to how it will work. The Law of Ukraine “On Cinematography” has come into force in January 1998.