The Law of Ukraine has been published by the Ukrainian government. The Law on Pipeline Transport, which makes it easier to operate in the field of pipeline transport, has been published by the Ukrainian government. Here is the full text of the law. This is a summary of the key principles of Ukraine's state policy in the field of pipeline transport. The Ukrainian government has agreed to reorganise the production sharing agreements between state enterprises and private companies. The Supreme Court of Ukraine has ordered the immediate withdrawal of fixed assets, shares and stakes in the statutory capital of state-owned enterprises. The transfer of underground gas storage facilities to lease without the right to buy out or sublease has been published by the Ukrainian government. The owners of the industrial pipeline transport in Ukraine have been named by the Ministry of Defence as a "national joint-stock company". The government of Ukraine has issued an executive survey of businesses, institutions and  organisations that operate pipelines in the same technical corridor. Ukraine's pipeline transport laws have been published by the Ukrainian government. The rules and obligations of pipeline transport enterprises, institutions and institutions have been published by the Ukrainian government. Authorities in Ukraine have issued a joint statement to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and nuclear safety. Here is the full list of key laws being considered. 1. Infrastructure, built (reconstructed) The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has published a list of measures to monitor the safety of pipeline transport. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has published the rules of security of main pipeline transport infrastructure. Authorities in Ukraine have issued a joint notice to the owners of the state Joint Stock Company “ Chornomornaftogaz”, which is responsible for failure to execute approved agreements on pipeline transport infrastructure. 1) Repayment of indebtness to the budget