The Law of Ukraine has been published by the European Court of Human Rights on the use of pesticides and agrochemicals. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the use of pesticides and agrochemicals in the country. Here is the full text of the law. 1. Special raw material zones and plant growth regulators The Ukrainian government has issued a law which makes it illegal to import pesticides and agrochemicals into the customs territory of Ukraine. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the conduct of state testing of pesticides and agrochemicals in the country. The government of Ukraine has announced a temporary ban on the registration of pesticides and agrochemicals in the country. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the use of pesticides and agrochemicals in the country. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the use of pesticides and agrochemicals in the country. The rules on the use of pesticides and agrochemicals in Ukraine have been published by the country's central executive authority. The government of Ukraine has published the rules for the state accounting of availability and use of pesticides and agrochemicals. The government has published a draft law which aims to ensure the effectiveness of the state policy in the field of environmental protection. The law on the use of pesticides and agrochemicals in Ukraine has been published by the government. The executive authorities in Ukraine have been given the powers to implement the state policy in the field of environmental protection. President Viktor Yanukovych has signed a decree on the powers of officials to exercise state supervision over the handling of pesticides and agrochemicals. Here is the full text of the latest laws published by the president. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has published the rules on the use of pesticides and agrochemicals in the country. The government of Ukraine has published a list of benefits and compensations to workers engaged in activities related to the use of pesticides and agrochemicals. The government of Ukraine has published the rules on the use of pesticides and agrochemicals in the country.