The period of the anti-terrorist operation is the time between the date of entry into force of the Decree of the President of Ukraine “On Urgent Measures to Overcome the Terrorist Threat and Preserve the Territorial Integrity of Ukraine” dated 14 April 2014 No. 405/2014. Banks and other financial institutions, as well as creditors, are obliged to cancel the penalties and/or fines accrued on the principal amount of debt under credit agreements and loan agreements. For temporarily displaced higher education institutions and temporarily displaced scientific institutions to fulfil credit and other contractual obligations, a moratorium is introduced for the period of the anti-terrorist operation. Moratorium on inspections by bodies and officials authorised by law to bring about state supervision (control) in the field of economic activity. The peculiarities of state registration of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs. For persons who have registered and moved from the territory of the anti-terrorist operation, the registration of an individual entrepreneur shall be carried out by state registrars at the address of temporary residence. It is prohibited to carry out registration related to changing the composition of founders (participants) and directors of legal entities located in settlements where state authorities temporarily do not exercise their powers. Temporarily displaced higher education institutions and temporarily displaced scientific institutions have the right to use the property conveyed to them based on the economic management right. The scope of powers to manage property may be expanded in comparison with the rights temporarily granted by this Law and other regulatory acts. The state contributes to the restoration of the facilities and resources. Employees of temporarily displaced higher education institutions and temporarily displaced scientific institutions who did not start performing their duties at the new location are considered to have refused to transfer. Exemption from payment for using land plots in state and municipal ownership. Moratorium on penalties for late payment for housing and utility services. Cancel the penalty for late payment for housing and utility services. Funds charged from the citizens of Ukraine as the penalty will be set off against future payments. Measures to preserve mortgaged property located within the territory of the anti-terrorist operation. Articles 41, 43–47 (regarding the sale of the mortgaged object at public auction) of the Law of Ukraine “On mortgage” shall be suspended. Provisions of the first part of this article shall not apply to real estate of individual entrepreneurs, legal entities – small and medium-sized businesses, located within the territory of the anti-terrorist operation. An inheritance case is subject to registration in the Inheritance Register according to the procedure approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. For persons whose place of residence is the territory of the anti-terrorist operation (for the period of its implementation), the central executive authority in charge of shaping state policy in the field of education shall determine the procedure for passing the state final examination. Article 9-3. The peculiarities of registering identity documents and documents confirming the citizenship of Ukraine for citizens who live in the area. Citizens who reside (resided) in the area of the anti-terrorist operation and/or the implementation of measures to ensure national security may be used to enter information about their place of residence into identity documents. This Law shall come into force on the day following the day of its publication and shall become void six months after the end of theAnti-Terrorist Operation. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Ukraine and its authorised regional chambers of commerce and industry shall confirm force majeure circumstances (circumstances of insuperable force) and issue a certificate on the same within seven days from the date of the application filed by the business entity at cost price. A certificate on force majesure for small businesses shall be issued free of charge. Force majes are circumstances that make it impossible to fulfil the obligations stipulated in the terms of the agreement. Part One of Article 14 of the Law of Ukraine “On Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine” shall be supplemented with paragraph two. Business entities operating in the territory of the anti-terrorist operation, for the period of its implementation, shall be exempt from liability for non-compliance with the deadlines. The National Bank of Ukraine shall: bring their regulatory acts in compliance with Article 2 of this Law; give appropriate orders to all banks in the territory of Ukraine, regardless of the form of ownership. Recommend that the National Bank takes measures to ensure the security and safety of financial resources of business entities.