The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine has adopted the following Law. Sanctions may be imposed by Ukraine against a foreign state, a foreign legal entity, a legal entity controlled by a foreignlegal entity or a non-resident individual. The imposition of sanctions shall not exclude the application of other measures for the protection of national interests. The grounds for the imposition of sanctions shall include: actions of a foreign state, a foreign legal entity or individual, other entities that create real and/or potential threats to national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. The sanctions shall be based on the principles of legality, transparency, objectivity, fitness for a purpose and effectiveness. Under the Law, the following types of sanctions will apply: asset blocking, trade transactions, restrictions on trade transactions and travel restrictions. 10) ban on public and defence procurement of goods, works and services from legal entities-residents of a foreign state. 11) prohibiting or restricting the entry of foreign non-military vessels and warships into the territorial sea of Ukraine and its internal waters. 12) complete or partial ban on legal actions with securities, issued by persons subjected to sanctions. Under this Law, sanctions, the procedure and conditions for the imposition of which are regulated by a special law, shall not be the measures to protect the rights and interests of subjects of foreign economic activity. In case actions that require permission from the bodies of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for concentration are subject to special economic and other restrictive measures, such concentration shall be prohibited. A decision on the imposition of sanctions must contain a time limit for their imposition, except in case of sanctions that result in the termination of rights. A decision to amend sanctions shall be made by the authority that decided to impose them in accordance with this Law. This Law shall come into force on the day following the day of its publication.