This Law determines the legal, economic and organisational framework for activities in Ukrainian seaports. Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority shall mean a state enterprise established under the law that ensures the operation of seaport, maintenance and use of state-owned port infrastructure, as well as performance of other tasks assigned to it directly and through its branches. 8) port infrastructure facilities shall mean movable and immovable facilities that ensure the seaport operation, including water area, hydraulic structures, docks, tugs, icebreakers and other vessels of the port fleet. 11) port operator (stevedoring company) shall mean a business entity that operates a marine terminal, conducts loading and unloading operations. This Law shall govern the relations in the field of port activities. It establishes the grounds for state regulation of activities in seaports. It determines legal regime of port infrastructure facilities. This Law shall not apply to river ports, sea fishing ports, stationing sites of Naval Forces of Ukraine. New seaports shall be constructed subject to the Ukraine Seaports Development Strategy and in accordance with the law. The procedure for opening and closing of seaport shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Register of Seaport of Ukraine is an electronic database of seeports, the purpose of which is to provide data required to perform the tasks in the field of navigation safety. The Register of Seaports of Ukraine shall contain the following information: 1) seaport registration number; 2) seeport name and location. 3. Access to the information of the register shall be open and free of charge. 4. The procedure for maintaining the Register of Hydraulic Structures shall be established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of maritime and river transport. The boundaries of the seaport territory shall be determined and changed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine subject to the Land Code of Ukraine. The seaports development plan must comply with the short-term Ukraine Seaports Development Strategy and should contain a detailed layout. The Guide to Seaport shall establish rules for the rendering of services at a seaport, as well as the servicing of vessels and passengers. The Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority shall issue the Guide toSeaport for each seeport. Article 10. The regime of stay and movement within the seaports shall be supervised by the maritime security services and seapport security units together with the state border guard authority. Border crossing points of the state border of Ukraine shall be opened on the territory of seaports and marine terminals. Border and customs control zones shall be established within seaport (marine terminals), where all types of control and examination of passengers, cargo and vehicles, verification and execution of documents, as well as cargo documents and vehicles shall be carried out. The Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority must develop and approve in the prescribed manner a plan for localisation and mitigation of accidents (catastrophes) It must ensure the operation of the emergency-rescue service, purchase and proper maintenance of specialised vessels, as well as equipment, devices and mechanisms. In case of man-made or natural disasters, the relevant central and local executive bodies, military command and local authorities may use berths in seaports in the manner prescribed by law. The main powers of the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of maritime and river transport in terms of port operation include. The main powers of the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state policy in the field of maritime and river transport safety shall include: implementation of state policy. The navigation within seaport waters shall be organised on the basis of the distribution of functions of navigation safety and supervision. The Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority shall be established. The head of the Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority (seaport harbour master) shall be appointed and dismissed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of maritime and river transport. Article 16. Financing of Ukraine Seaport Authorities. In the course of its operation, the UkrainianSea Ports Authority enters into agreements on upgrading, reconstruction and construction of port infrastructure facilities. The operation of the seaport authorities of Ukraine shall be financed at the expense of the port levies charged by the port hereunder, service fees and rent. Financing of certain activities, in particular upgrading, repair, reconstruction and construction of hydraulic structures and other port infrastructure facilities, can be provided out of the State Budget of Ukraine. The Seaport Council (Port Council) shall be created at the seaport, i.e. a permanent advisory body with the main task to coordinate the issues related to theseaport development and operation. Business entities of all forms of ownership, including enterprises, the products and/or raw materials of which are carried through the territory and waters of the port, shall operate within a seaports. It is prohibited to narrow the content and scope of the existing rights of theport operation facilities. The Port Council shall be chaired by the head of the seaport, who ensures the organisation of its work. The Council shall consider changes and amendments to the port development plan, the Guide to Seaport and port regulations. Owners and/or users of technologically inter-connected port infrastructure facilities should enter into agreements. Business entities engaged in economic activity at seaports must: 1) comply with the order established at the seaport; 2) operate the seicort infrastructure facilities in accordance with safety requirements and environmental law; 3) ensure the possibility for customs authorities, state border guards and other government authorities exercising their powers in the seacort to exercise their powers. The rates of port levies shall be established for each seaport by the national committee in charge of the government regulation in the field of transport in accordance with the method approved by the committee. The berth due shall be charged in favour of the berth owner. If the berth is in use, the due shall also be charged to the user. In case of misuse of funds from port fees, the entity that committed such a violation shall pay to the State Budget of Ukraine a fine.  strategic port infrastructure facilities existing as of the enforcement date hereof shall not be subject to lease or concession. Berths, piers, shore protection and coast protection and other types of berth structures, rail and road access roads (to the first branching outside the port territory), communication lines, heat, gas, water and electricity supply facilities, as well as utilities. The Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority shall own, use and dispose of the state-owned property assigned to it, subject to its purpose. The state shall guarantee the right of private ownership to port infrastructure facilities lawfully acquired before the enactment of this Law. New hydraulic structures, built at the expense of private funds, shall be private property. Unified property complexes of state enterprises and shares of joint stock companies shall be subject to sale on a competitive basis. The terms of the tender for the sale of a unified property complex of a state enterprise may provide for the lease of berths for up to 49 years. Private investment in state-owned port infrastructure facilities within the seaport shall be under concession agreements. Land plots, where the unified property complex of such a company and berths technologically providing the completed cycle of services, are located may be leased to the economic company. Port levies managed by the Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority, and other sources not prohibited by law, may be the sources of compensation for investments in strategic port infrastructure facilities. “seaport waters (harbour) shall mean a part of a water object (objects) determined by the boundaries, except fairway designated for safe approach, manoeuvring, berthing and departure of vessels” “Hydraulic structures of seaports (hydraulic structure) are engineering structures (port water, mooring berths, piers, other types of berthing structures, moles, dams, breakwaters, other coastal protection structures) located within the territory and water area of the seaport and designed to ensure the safety of navigation” Article 73. Legal, economic, social and organisational fundamentals of the activity in the seaports shall be determined by this Code and the Law of Ukraine “On Seaports of Ukraine”. Article 75. State supervision over the safety of navigation in a seaport. State supervision over the safety of navigation in a seaport, its approaches and adjacent water areas shall be carried out by the harbour master. Navigational and hydrographic support for navigation in inland waters, territorial sea and exclusive maritime economic zone of Ukraine shall be provided. The orders of the seaport harbour master shall be binding for all vessels, legal entities and individuals that are within the water area and territory of that seaport. The order of the harbour master may be revoked by the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state policy in the field of maritime and river transport safety. The words “State Port Supervision Inspectorate” in all cases shall be replaced by the words ‘seaport harbour master service’ in the appropriate case. The title of Chapter 3 shall be amended to read as follows: CHAPTER 3. MARITIME PILOTS. The words “organisation” shall be replaced by the word “enterprise” and “central executive body in the field of transport” will be deleted. In Part 4 of Article 110, the words ‘seaport harbour master’ and ‘at port’ will be replaced. Amend part four to read as follows: “If the owner of the sunken property is unknown, the seaport administration shall publish information about the time period set for the recovery’. Article 124 shall be amended to read “Article 124. Right to Choose a Ship-Raising Company”. The words “in port waters” shall be replaced by the words ‘in seaport waters’ in the text of the Land Code of Ukraine. “State maritime pilot” in all cases and numbers will be replaced with ‘maritime pilot’. ‘Artificially created land plots within the waters of seaports’ will be amended. Part 3 of Article 93 shall be amended to read as follows: “3. Land plots, artificially created within the shoreline protection belt or the right-of-way zone, shall not be subject to lease, except for the cases provided for by the law” “5) in Part 4, Article 40 of the Law of Ukraine “On Notaries” (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 1993, No. 39, Art. 383) the words “to the chief of the port of Ukraine” shall be replaced by the words "to the seaport harbour master” State enterprises–seaports and other sea transport enterprises, to which the definition of the term “marine terminal” applies as of the date of enactment hereof, shall be considered open. Border crossing points at the state border of Ukraine and border and customs control zones opened before the enactment of this Law shall continue to operate within the respective seaports. All permits for the construction of port infrastructure facilities issued before the enactment of this Law, including by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of maritime and river transport, shall remain in force. Underwater hydraulic structures (canals, operating waters of berths, etc.) located within seaport waters shall be subject to transfer on a compensatory basis to the state ownership represented by the Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority.  organise a collection of information on private hydraulic structures and water fund lands allocated for the construction of port infrastructure facilities. determine the boundaries of the territory and waters of each seaport. organise the collection of Information on private business entities whose activities are related to the servicing of vessels, passengers and cargo.