The Law is based on the provisions of the Constitution (Fundamental Law) of Ukraine, the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine “On Economic Independence of the Ukrainian SSR” The Law is intended to introduce the legal regulation of all types of foreign economic activity in Ukraine.  export (export of goods) – sale of goods by Ukrainian foreign economic activity entities to foreign business entities (including with non-cash payment) with or without the export of these goods across the customs border of Ukraine. In doing so, the term re-export (re-export of Goods) shall mean the sale to foreignbusiness entities and export outside Ukraine of goods that were previously imported into the territory of Ukraine; export (import) of capital –Export outside Ukraine (import from outside Ukraine) to gain profit from the production and other forms of economic activity.  export (import) quota – maximum volume of a certain goods category allowed to be exported from the territory of Ukraine. group quotas (contingents) – quotas set for goods, determining the group of countries to which goods are exported or from which they are imported. special licenсe – duly registered right to import of certain goods into Ukraine within a specified period.  restrictive business practice – taking individual or collective measures aimed at restriction on competition and monopolisation of production, sharing, exchange, consumption of goods. Transfer of currency funds outside Ukraine – transfer of (currency) funds in favour (to the account) of a foreign business entity or to banking and credit institution not a business entity of Ukraine. Ukrainian business entities of Ukraine and foreign business entities shall be guided by the following principles: the principle of sovereignty of the Ukrainian people during foreign economic activity. The principle of legal equality and non-discrimination that consists in: – equality of all foreigneconomic activity entities before the law, irrespective of their ownership forms, including the state. The Principle of the rule of law that consists of: –foreign economic activity regulation only by the laws of Ukraine. Foreign economic activity entities in Ukraine shall be: – individuals – citizens of Ukraine, foreign nationals and stateless persons who have civil legal capacity under the laws of Ukraine. – legal entities registered as such in Ukraine and having a permanent location in the territory of Ukraine (enterprises, organisations, unions, concerns, consortia, trading houses, intermediary and consulting firms, cooperatives, credit and financial institutions) Foreign economic activity entities of Ukraine can provide services to foreign business entities. These include production, freight forwarding, insurance, consulting, marketing, export, intermediary, brokerage, agency, consignment, management, accounting, auditing, legal, tourist and other services. These services are not prohibited directly and exclusively by the laws of Ukraine.  Individuals shall be entitled to conduct foreign economic activity from the moment they acquire civil capacity under the laws of Ukraine. Intermediary operations in which the right of ownership of goods is not transferred to the intermediary (based on commission, agency agreements, etc.) shall be carried out without restrictions. It is prohibited to seize the foreigneconomic activity results from the owners in any remunerative or gratuitous form without their consent. Branches and representative offices of foreign banks shall be accredited by the National Bank of Ukraine under the Law of Ukraine “On Banks and Banking” The central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of economic development shall carry out the registration of other foreign business entities. A foreign economic agreement (contract) may be concluded by accepting a public proposal on the agreement (offer) or by exchanging electronic messages. Exchange (barter) operations of foreign economic activity entities that are carried out without settlements through the banks shall be subject to licensing by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy. The foreign economic activity regulation in Ukraine shall be carried out by: – Ukraine as a state represented by its authorities within their competence. – non-state administration bodies of the economy (commodity, stock, currency exchanges, chambers of commerce, associations, unions and other organisations of coordination type) – foreign economic activities themselves based on the relevant coordination agreements concluded between them. Most-favoured-nation regime means that foreign business entities have a scope of rights, preferences, benefits for duties, taxes and fees used and/or to be used by a foreign business entity of any other state to which the specified regime is granted. Special regime applied to territories of special economic zones under Article 24 of this Law. The state and its bodies shall not be entitled to interfere directly with the foreign economic activity of the entities of this activity. The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall be the highest body for state regulation of foreign economic activities. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will take measures to implement a foreign economic policy of Ukraine under the laws of Ukraine. The National Bank of Ukraine shall: – store and use the gold and foreign exchange reserve of Ukraine and other state valuables that ensure the solvency of Ukraine. – represent the interests of Ukraine in relations with central banks of other states, international banks and other financial and credit institutions. – manage the exchange rate of the national currency of Ukraine to the monetary units of other countries. The National Bank of Ukraine may delegate the bank's functions assigned to it for the foreign economic activity of Ukraine. The Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine shall: – exercise control over the compliance with the legislation on protection of economic competition. The Interdepartmental Commission on International Trade shall carry out operative state regulation. The customs authorities shall exercise customs control in Ukraine. The competence of local authorities and their executive authorities shall be determined by this Law and the Law of Ukraine “On Local Self-Government in Ukraine’. Local authorities and executive authorities will operate as foreign economic activity entities only through foreign economic commercial organisations established by them. The state regulatory bodies of Ukraine may establish their territorial units (departments) if this follows from their competence defined by the laws of Ukraine and regulations on these bodies. The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall define the customs policy of Ukraine. Customs regulation of foreign economic activity shall be carried out under this Law, the Customs Code of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on customs regulation, the Common Customs Tariff of Ukraine and international agreements. Customs measures provided for by Articles 29, 31 of this Law shall be applied to those states that apply discriminatory actions in respect to Ukraine. As a state, Ukraine shall be liable for the actions of its customs authorities under Article 34 of this Law. Export operations with scrap metal shall be carried out under this Law taking into account the specifics defined by the laws of Ukraine “On Scrap Metal” and ‘On Export Duty on Ferrous Metal Waste and Scrap’ The amount of state credit (state guarantee of commercial credit) granted in the currency effective in the territory of Ukraine and/or in foreign currency to one foreign economic activity entity within one year shall not exceed 5 per cent of the relevant annual limits of state crediting. Insurance of foreign economic operations in Ukraine shall be carried out by commercial insurance companies (state, joint-stock, foreign, mixed, co-operative, etc.)  export credits, foreign economic agreements (contracts) and investments shall be carried out by the Export Credit Agency under the Law of Ukraine “On Ensuring Large-Scale Expansion of Export of Goods (Works, Services) of Ukrainian Origin by Insurance, Guaranteeing and Reducing of Export Crediting” Article 16. Licensing of foreign economic operations.  import licensing of goods shall be introduced in Ukraine in case of sharp deterioration in the balance of payments and external payments. Such licensing shall be temporary and applied until the balance for certain goods on the domestic market is restored. The need to protect human life, health, fauna or flora, environment, public morals, national wealth of artistic, historical or archaeological value or intellectual property rights protection. The decision to apply the licensing regime of export (import) of goods, including the setting of quotas (quantitative or other restrictions), shall be made by the Cabinet of Ministers. The licences shall be issued by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of economic development. One type of licence only may be established for each type of goods. The data provided by the terms and conditions of the foreign economic agreement (contract) shall be deemed to be basic data. The application may not be rejected in case of minor errors in the documents submitted for the licence granting if they do not change the essential data contained in the application. If an automatic licensing regime is introduced, the deadline for issuing a licence shall not exceed 10 working days. A fee, the amount of which shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine taking into account the actual costs associated with the application of the licensing procedure, shall be charged for issuing a licence. Customs clearance of goods that are licensed and loaded in bulk shall not be denied if the value, quantity or weight of such goods differ slightly from those specified in the licence. A list of goods, export (import) of which is subject to licensing, information on the validity period of licences and any amendments to them, the procedure of submission and consideration of applications shall be published in the official printed publications of Ukraine. A fine of 10 per cent of the conducted operation value, converted into the currency of Ukraine to foreign currencies, established by the National Bank of Ukraine on the date of such operation.  export from the territory of Ukraine of items of the national, historical, archaeological or cultural heritage of the Ukrainian people. import of products and services that contain propaganda of war, racism and racial discrimination, genocide, etc., contrary to the relevant norms of the Constitution of Ukraine. export of natural resources that are exhausted if restrictions also apply to domestic consumption or production. export and import of goods that violate intellectual property rights. The previous import deposit shall be opened not later than three working days after the agreement (contract) enters into legal force. In case of violation of a specified term or other conditions of opening preliminary import deposits, the foreign economic activity entities shall be subject to sanctions determined by the procedure approved by the National Bank of Ukraine. It is prohibited to apply the previous deposit regime to the goods that are subject to introducing import licensing and quotation regime. Public administration bodies of Ukraine and local councils of councillors of Ukraine shall be entitled to place, as a rule, state orders for the production, export and import of goods on a competitive basis. Foreign business entities shall enjoy equal rights and bear equal responsibilities with the foreign economic activity entities of Ukraine in case of holding a competitive tender for the state order placement. The National Bank of Ukraine (or, on its behalf, the bank for foreign economic activity of Ukraine) shall be provided with information on the amounts for the mandatory distribution of part of the proceeds in foreign currency – four times a year. Banking and credit institutions that provide credits to foreign economic. activity entities shall be entitled to obtain the required information on financial condition of these foreign. economic activity entities and their solvency under the terms of the written credit agreements. Special economic zones of different types may be introduced in the territory of Ukraine. Ukraine may conclude bilateral and/or multilateral agreements with the states that have common maritime and/ or land borders with Ukraine. Economic relations of Ukraine with other states shall be governed by the relevant international agreements and regulations of international law. Ukraine shall be obliged to protect the rights and legitimate interests of foreign economic activity entities of Ukraine outside Ukraine under the regulations of international law. Measures in response to discriminatory and/or unfriendly actions of other states, customs unions or economic groups shall be taken under the laws of Ukraine. In case of a positive decision on the existence of the fact (facts) of discriminatory actions, the decision on application of measures in response to discriminatory and/or unfriendly actions of other states, customs unions or economic groups shall be made by the state regulatory bodies for foreign economic activity subject to their competence. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall decide on the application of Measures in Response to the actions of the aggressor state. The decision to apply relevant measures in response to discriminatory and/or unfriendly actions of other states, customs unions or economic groups may be appealed in court. It is prohibited to re-export goods imported at the expense of the State Monetary Fund of Ukraine and the monetary funds of local councils of councillors of Ukraine. As a state, Ukraine shall not be liable for the actions of foreign economic activity entities. Property liability shall be applied in the form of material compensation for direct, consequential losses, loss of profit and moral damage. Criminal liability will be imposed only in cases provided for by the criminal legislation of Ukraine. The judicial authorities of Ukraine shall have competence for all cases. Any foreign economic activity entity or foreign business entity shall be entitled to file a claim against Ukraine as a state. The courts of Ukraine shall have competence for the specified claims under Article 39 of this Law. Actions of state bodies and their officials shall be deemed to be the actions of the state as a whole. Interstate disputes which may arise as a result of the actions of Ukraine in the application of this Law shall be settled in accordance with the procedure agreed by the parties under the regulations of international law. – in commercial courts, if legal entities are parties to the case. – In the court of law, if the parties agree that the case should be heard in the commercial courts.