This Law shall determine the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons staying in Ukraine and establish the procedure for entering and exiting Ukraine. The following definitions shall apply: forced stop shall mean the stay of a foreigner or stateless person within the territory of Ukraine over the period set for transit through its territory due to emergencies. 9) foreigners and stateless persons temporarily staying on the territory of Ukraine. 10) foreigners who have obtained a temporary residence permit unless otherwise determined by law. 11) country of nationality shall mean a country or countries of nationality (citizenship) of a person. 14) irregular immigrant shall mean a foreigner who crossed the border outside the border crossing points or using the latter, but avoiding border control. Host party shall mean Ukrainian enterprises, institutions and organisations. Identity document of a stateless person for travelling abroad shall mean a document that identifies a stateless person when crossing the state border of Ukraine and staying abroad. Readmission shall mean rendition from the territory of Ukraine or admission on the territory. Legal representatives of a child shall mean parents (adoptive parents), stepparents, foster parents, custodians, guardians. The definition of the term “child separated from his/her family” given in the Law of Ukraine “On Refugees and Persons in Need of Subsidiary Protection or Asylum” shall apply in this Law. Legal status of foreigners and stateless persons shall be determined by the Constitution of Ukraine. According to the Law of Ukraine “On Immigration”, foreigners and stateless persons may immigrate to Ukraine for permanent residence. The permanent residence of a refugee on the territory of Ukraine shall be confirmed by a refugee certificate. Foreigners who arrived in Ukraine to participate in the international technical assistance projects registered following the determined procedure, and obtained a temporary residence permit. Foreigners and stateless persons who arrived in Ukraine to work in branches or representative offices of foreign banks registered following the determined procedure, and obtained a temporary residence permit, shall be deemed residing on the territory of Ukraine on legal grounds for the period of employment in Ukraine. Foreigners who are founders and/or participants of a legal entity registered in Ukraine and arrived in. Ukraine for controlling the activity of such legal entities and obtain a temporary. residence permit will be deemed living in Ukraine for validity period of such permit. Foreigners and stateless persons who entered Ukraine on other legal grounds shall be deemed temporarily staying on the territory of Ukraine on legal grounds for the period of permission for entry under a visa or the period set by the legislation or an international treaty of Ukraine. Foreigners who arrived in Ukraine for family reunification with the persons specified in parts 2–12 of this Article, and obtained a temporary residence permit, will be deemed permanently residing in Ukraine. Those who entered into a military service contract with the Armed Forces of Ukraine following the established procedure shall be considered temporarily residing on the country. Foreigners and stateless persons staying on the territory of Ukraine on legal grounds must have a valid passport. If a passport is lost or re-issued, a foreigner or a stateless person must notify thereof a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) A person who cannot obtain a passport due to the fact that he/she is not considered as a national by any state under the operation of its law shall have the right to file an application with a central executive authority. The grounds for issuing a permanent residence permit to foreigners and stateless persons specified in part 17, Article 4 of this Law shall be a relevant decree of the President of Ukraine on termination of the nationality of Ukraine. The grounds for issuing a temporary residence permit in the case provided for by part 5 of Article 4 of this Law shall be an application of a foreigner or a stateless person, valid health insurance and a relevant submission of a state institution, enterprise or organisation, which is a recipient of an international technical assistance project. For persons having the status of foreign-based Ukrainians an employment agreement (contract) and a certificate of a foreign- based Ukrainian shall be submitted. The grounds for issuing a temporary residence permit in the case provided for by part 10 of Article 4 of this Law shall be an application of a foreigner or a stateless person, valid health insurance, submission of foreign mass media, and submission of a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on ensuring information sovereignty of Ukraine. Documents determined in paragraphs 2–6, clause 4 of this part must be certified by an authorised officer of a legal entity. If a foreigner or stateless person is a shareholder of a joint-stock company registered in Ukraine, the validity of such marriage shall be determined according to the Law of Ukraine ‘On International Private Law’ The grounds for issuing a temporary residence permit in the case provided for by part 15, Article 4 of this Law shall be an application of a foreigner or a stateless person, valid health insurance and document under which they are recognised as family members of the person specified in parts 2–13. The document confirming belonging to the family shall be deemed valid in Ukraine if it is legalised. Foreigners and stateless persons must submit four coloured photographs of 3.5 x 4.5 centimetres. They must also submit a passport the validity period of which has expired or which is to be replaced if to obtain a new document the person must apply to the government authorities of a country of nationality or country of last permanent residence. They can also file a judgment on establishing that he/she belongs to persons specified in part 20 of Article 4 of this Law. The grounds for issuing a temporary residence permit in the cases provided for by part 20, Article 4 of this Law shall be an application of a person recognised as a stateless person. A competent authority shall return the passport to a person immediately after accepting the application for issuance or extension of the validity period of a permit. Foreigners and stateless persons must obtain a long-term visa to obtain a temporary residence permit in Ukraine unless otherwise provided for by the laws or international treaties of Ukraine. Validity period may not exceed the validity period of a passport of a foreigner or stateless person. The administrative fee for issuing and extending the validity period of a temporary residence permit shall be charged in the amount of 20 tax-exempt minimum incomes of nationals. A foreigner or stateless person may be recognised as a refugee or a person in need of subsidiary protection, or they may be granted temporary protection following the procedure determined by law. An application for recognition of an incapacitated person as a stateless person shall be filed by his/her legal representative. An authorised person of a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration), including the counteraction to irregular (illegal) migration, nationality, registration of individuals, refugees and other categories of migrants determined by the legislation. A person filing the application for recognition as a stateless person who does not speak Ukrainian shall be provided with an interpreter of the language he/she speaks. A central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration), including the counteraction to irregular (illegal) migration, nationality, registration of individuals, refugees and other categories of migrants determined by the legislation, shall take the necessary measures for gathering the information. If circumstances are established during the procedure for recognising as a stateless person, which may indicate that a person is a national of Ukraine under the Law of Ukraine “On the Nationality of Ukraine”, consideration of the application for recognition as aStateless person shall be suspended. A central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration), including the counteraction to irregular (illegal) migration, nationality, registration of individuals, refugees and other categories of migrants determined by the legislation, shall make a decision on denying the recognition. Once a decision on denying the recognition as a stateless person is made, a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration), including the counteraction to irregular (illegal) migration, nationality, registration of individuals, refugees and other categories of migrants determined by the legislation, shall send a person who filed the application a notification. A decision to deny recognition asA statelessperson may be appealed by a person. A decision on the recognition as a stateless person shall be cancelled on grounds provided for by part 3 of this Article. A central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration), including the counteraction to irregular (illegal) migration, nationality, registration of individuals, refugees and other categories of migrants determined by the legislation, shall send such a person or his/her legal representative a notification. A decision on cancelling the decision may be appealed in the administrative court. A central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) shall keep account of the person who applied for the recognition as a stateless person. The period of stay of foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine shall be determined by a visa, legislation of Ukraine or international treaty. The rules of issuing visas to foreigners and stateless persons, including the submission of their biometric data during the issuance, and the list of required documents for obtaining it shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A visa may be cancelled during undergoing the border control procedure on grounds and in accordance with the procedure determined by the Law of Ukraine “On Border Control” A visa shall be cancelled if the applicant submitted an invalid passport or passport issued to another person, or other forged documents or provided deliberately false information. The decision to cancel a visa may be appealed following the procedure determined by law. Entry to Ukraine for foreigners and the stateless person shall not be allowed: in the interests of the national security of Ukraine or public order. The decision to ban entry to Ukraine shall be made by a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) Information about a foreigner or stateless person shall be entered into the database of persons who are not allowed to enter Ukraine or are temporarily restricted from exiting from Ukraine. Foreigners and stateless persons who arrived at the entry/exit checkpoints from the temporarily occupied territory without an appropriate permit shall not be allowed to continue travelling. If it is impossible to immediately return a foreigner or stateless person, they shall remain at the Entry/exit checkpoint until their return. Foreigners and stateless persons entering Ukraine shall be registered at the border crossing points at the state border of Ukraine. Persons specified in part 5, Article 16 of this Law may enter Ukraine and exit from Ukraine under passports and accreditation cards. A registration stamp made in a passport and/or immigration card or other documents of a foreigner or a stateless person provided for by the legislation of Ukraine will be valid throughout the territory of Ukraine, regardless of location or residence. Rules of registration of foreigners and stateless persons shall not apply to persons who illegally crossed the state border of Ukraine with the intention of recognising them as refugees or persons in need of subsidiary protection, asylum or temporary protection in Ukraine. Head of states and governments of foreign countries, members of parliament and government delegations are exempt from registration. Private household employees (workers) of the diplomatic personnel, consular officers and administrative and technical personnel of diplomatic missions and consular posts of foreign states. Officers of international organisations who arrived in Ukraine for official matters, employees of missions of such states at the international organisations with the headquarters in Ukraine, as well as their family members. An identity document of a stateless person for travelling abroad is a document identifying the person when crossing the state border of Ukraine and staying abroad. The rules of transit through the territory of Ukraine by foreigners and stateless persons shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Financial resources for entry to Ukraine, stay on the territory and transit through Ukraine for foreigners andStateless persons. Foreigners and stateless persons staying in Ukraine on legal grounds may freely exit from the territory of Ukraine in accordance with the determined procedure. A foreigner or stateless person shall not be allowed to exit from Ukraine if he/she was served charge papers of committing a crime or a judgment is pending on a criminal case by the court. Foreigners and stateless persons who have no legal grounds to stay in Ukraine may voluntarily return to the country of origin or a third country. The voluntary return procedure period must not exceed 60 days. Provisions of this Article shall not apply to persons covered by the Law of Ukraine “On Refugees and Persons in Need of Subsidiary Protection or Asylum” A foreigner and stateless person may be forcibly returned to the country of origin or a third country if their actions violate the legislation on the legal status of foreigners. The decision on the forcible return of foreigners andStateless persons specified in part one of this Article may be accompanied by a ban on further entry to Ukraine for three years. Forcible return does not apply to foreigners and stateless persons under the age of eighteen years old covered by the Law of Ukraine “On Refugees and Persons in Need of Subsidiary Protection or Asylum” A stateless person permanently residing in Ukraine who committed offences outside Ukraine cannot be extradited to another state for criminal prosecution or enforcement of a sentence. The issue of extraditing foreigners staying in Ukraine who committed offences outside Ukraine shall be governed by the legislative acts of Ukraine and international treaties of Ukraine. Provisions of part 1 of this Article shall not apply to persons covered by the Law of Ukraine “On Refugees and Persons in Need of Subsidiary Protection or Asylum”. Foreigners and stateless persons specified in this Articles shall be prohibited from further entering Ukraine for five years. A claim for forcible deportation shall not be filed in respect of foreigners andStateless persons. A central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration), including the counteraction to irregular (illegal) migration, nationality, registration of individuals, refugees and other categories of migrants determined by the legislation. The judgment on forcible deportation of foreigners or stateless persons shall be enforced by a central executive authority enforcing the state policy on migration (immigration and emigration) The law does not apply to foreigners covered by the Law of Ukraine “On Refugees and Persons in Need of Subsidiary Protection or Asylum’ Foreigners and stateless persons who are to be forcibly deported from Ukraine under a judgment shall compensate for the expenses related to deportation following the procedure determined by law. Expenses necessary for the enforcement of a judgment on forcible deportation of a foreigner or stateless person shall include the following: tickets for a foreigner and those who escort them. A foreigner and stateless person shall be notified of the total expenses related to forcible deportation against receipt, calculated at the prices on the date of settlement. A respective note shall be made in the act indicating the reasons for refusal. The following shall be declared invalid: Law of Ukraine “On the Legal Status of Foreigners and Stateless Persons” (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 1994, No. 23, Article 161) President of Ukraine. submit for consideration to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals on bringing the legislative acts of Ukraine in line with this Law. ensure that central executive authorities bring their regulatory acts in line. with this law. President of Ukraine                V. YANUKOVYCHCity of Kyiv 22 September 2011No. 3773-VI