In the text of the Law, the words “specially authorised central executive authority on migration” and “migration service authority” have been replaced in all cases with “central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection” in a relevant case.  certificate on the application for protection in Ukraine shall mean a document, which confirms that a person stays on the territory of Ukraine on legal grounds for a period to commence when a person files a relevant application for recognition as a refugee or as a person in need of subsidiary protection. Protection granted in Ukraine on an individual basis to foreigners and stateless persons. Country of nationality shall mean a country of nationality (citizenship) of a person. If a person has more than one nationality, he/she shall not be considered as lacking the protection of the country of his/her nationality. Country of previous permanent residence of a stateless person shall mean the country in which such a person permanently resided before arriving in Ukraine. Person in need of subsidiary protection shall mean person who is not a refugee under 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees.  certificate of a person in need of subsidiary protection shall mean a passport, which identifies its holder and confirms that he/she has been recognised as a refugee. Temporary protection shall mean a form of protection, which is an exceptional practical time-bounded measure, and is granted in Ukraine to foreigners and stateless persons. Ukraine is a party to the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol. It has national legislation in the field of asylum and refugees, and its respective government authorities determine the refugee status and grant asylum. The law provides for an option to apply for asylum and enjoy it. A refugee or a person in need of subsidiary protection or person granted temporary protection cannot be removed or forcibly returned to countries where they may be subjected to torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Ukraine shall promote the preservation of family unity of refugees and persons in needof subsidiary protection. Family members of a person who has been recognised as a refugee or person in. need of. subsidiary protection in Ukraine, shall have the right to arrive in Ukraine. A person who intending to be recognised as a refugee in Ukraine or person in need of subsidiary protection illegally crossed the state border of Ukraine when entering Ukraine must immediately file an application. If such a person has no identity documents, or if such documents are forged, he/she must specify this fact in an explanation and specify the reasons for such a situation. A person specified in part 2 of this Article shall not be liable for illegal crossing of the state border of Ukraine if he/she immediately applied for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection. A central executive authority may decide to deny acceptance of the application for recognition if the applicant impersonates someone else. The status of a refugee  shall not  be granted to a person: who committed a crime against peace, war crime or crime against humanity and humankind. Who prior to arrival in Ukraine committed a non-political crime outside Ukraine with the purpose of being recognised as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection. This paragraph shall not apply to children separated from their families or to persons who were born or permanently resided in Ukraine and to their descendants. Identity documents, as well as documents and materials that may serve as evidence of existing conditions for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection, shall be attached to the application. If an applicant has no identity documents, or if such documents are forged, the person must specify this circumstance in the application for recognition. A central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection, which admitted an application of a foreigner or stateless person for recognition as a refugee or person in need subsidiary protection for consideration, shall issue a certificate to the applicant on application for protection in Ukraine. An attorney for providing legal aid to the applicants shall be appointed following the determined procedure. During the interview, a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection shall provide the applicant who does not speak Ukrainian or Russian with an interpreter. The applicant shall have the right to engage an interpreter at his/her own expense or the expense of other legal entities or individuals. An interpreter must comply keep confidentiality with the mandatory issuance of the documents. The application for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection shall be considered by a central executive authority within two months after the date deciding to issue the documents. The deadline for consideration may be extended by an authorised officer of acentral executive authority. If a person exercises the right to appeal, the applicant’s identity documents and other documents shall be kept until a decision on the appeal is made. Interview with the applicant shall be conducted under the rules provided for by parts 2 and 3, Article 8 of this Law. While considering an application of a child separated from the family for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection, it is mandatory for an attorney to participate. An attorney for providing legal aid to such a child shall be appointed in accordance with the determined procedure. In case of doubts as to the authenticity of the information provided by the applicant, and the need to prove the authenticity and validity of documents submitted by him/her, a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection shall have the right to send relevant inquiries to bodies of the Security Service of Ukraine. Decisions on the application for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection must be made within one month after receiving the applicant’s personal file and written conclusion. The deadline for making a decision may be extended by the head of the central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees. A foreigner or stateless person shall be recognised as a refugee in Ukraine or as a person in need of subsidiary protection. A decision on recognising them as refugees or staying in Ukraine for an unlimited period on legal grounds is made. The decision of a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need. of subsidiary or temporary protection shall be sent to authorised officers of such a central. executive authority within three business days after the date the decision was made. A relevant certificate can be issued and provided to a minor specified in part 12 of this Article. A refugee certificate or certificate of a person in need of subsidiary protection shall be issued to a child under sixteen years old if he/she is separated from the family. The certificate on the application for protection in Ukraine shall be seized when a refugee certificate is issued. Information about family members of a refugee under 16 years old shall be specified in the refugee certificate. If a person appeals against such a decision, the certificate on the application for protection in Ukraine shall be extended. If a person fails to exercise the right to appeal within five business days following the day he/she was notified in writing of the decision to deny recognition, a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection shall seize the national passport. 1. Cannot refuse to enjoy the protection of the country of his/her nationality because circumstances under which he/she was recognised as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection have ceased to exist. 2. Can return to country of previous permanent residence. 3) voluntarily returned to the country, which he or she left. 4) while being a stateless person. 5) was granted asylum or permanent residence permit in another country. A decision on cessation or deprivation of the refugee status or subsidiary protection, or on cancelling the decision on recognising a person as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary, must be made by a central executive authority. The deadline for making a decision may be extended by the head of the central executive. authority implementing the state policy on refugees. In case of doubts as to the authenticity of the information provided in the submission, and the need to prove the authenticity and validity of documents, a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection shall have the right to submit relevant inquiries to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Security Service of Ukraine, other government authorities, local governments and public associations. A central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection shall send a person a notification specifying the reasons for such a decision and explaining the appeal procedure. A person who failed to exercise the right to appeal against a decision on cessation or deprivation of his/her refugee status or subsidiary protection must leave the territory of Ukraine within the set period. Decisions to deny acceptance of the application for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection may be appealed against to a central executive authority. Decisions on cessation or deprivation of the refugee status or subsidiary protection on cancelling the decision on recognition may be appeal against to court following the procedure. A person whose appeal is under consideration or his/her legal representative shall have the right to legal aid. At the person’s choice, an attorney may participate in consideration of the appeal. A central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection may appoint an attorney following the procedure determined by law. A person in whose respect a decision to issue documents for resolving the issue of recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection was made shall have the right to: temporary employment, training and medical care in accordance with the procedure determined by the legislation of Ukraine. A person who applied for refugee status or subsidiary protection must submit information to a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees. People recognised as refugees in Ukraine shall be regarded as persons permanently residing in Ukraine from the date of the decision on their recognition as refugees. A person recognised as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection shall enjoy, on a par with the nationals of Ukraine, the rights in marriage and family relations. A person recognised as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection must notify a central executive authority within ten business days of any change in surname, family composition, marital status, place of residence, facts of obtaining nationality of Ukraine or another country, asylum or residence permit in another state. A person who has been denied the issuance of documents for resolving the issue on recognition of a refugee may re-apply for the recognition. A person who appeals against a relevant decision to a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection, shall enjoy the rights and incur obligations provided for by Article 13 of this Law. A person who received the court’s notification on confirming the decision to deny issuance of documents for resolving the issue of recognition as a refugee must leave the territory of Ukraine within the determined period. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall set the requirements for the places of temporary stay of persons granted temporary protection. The list of places for temporary accommodation and the procedure for maintenance of such places shall be determined by the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine. The right to free emergency medical care at public healthcare institutions; voluntary return to the country of origin; file an application for recognition. Temporary protection to foreigners and stateless persons may be granted at the expense of funds of the international organisations, charity funds and public organisations. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall make a decision on terminating temporary protection. A person shall be deprived of temporary protection if he/she commits a crime: against peace, war crime or crime against humanity and humankind. Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall determine in a draft State Budget of Ukraine the amounts of financing for the activities in pursuance of this Law. Powers of a central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection shall include: 1) making decisions on recognition as a refugee, decisions on the cessation, deprivation of the refugee status and subsidiary protection, and on cancelling the decision. A central executive authority implementing the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection shall organise the work on: 1) acceptance from foreigners and stateless persons of applications for recognition. 2) performing fingerprinting of persons who have applied for recognition as a refugee. 3) facilitation of placement of children separated from the family to relevant child care centres. 6) considering the applications for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection. 7) issuance of certificates on the application for protection. 8) issuing of certificates and travel documents for travelling abroad to persons recognised as refugees. 9) issuing certificates to persons granted temporary protection; 10) re-registration of persons recognised. 19) registration of persons who have applied for recognition as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection. 20) preparing the submissions on the cessation or deprivation of the refugee status or subsidiary protection, on deprivation of temporary protection. 21) solving other issues referred to the powers of a relevant authority by the legislation. A central executive authority implementing the state policy on employment and social protection of population shall ensure that the persons recognised as a refugee or person in need of subsidiary protection receive financial aid, pensions, and other types of social security. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine shall perform general supervision of the enforcement of international treaties on refugee protection ratified by the Verkhovna Rada. Child protection services shall be legal representatives of children separated from the families. Central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy on refugees and persons in need of subsidiary or temporary protection. Foreigners and stateless persons recognised as refugees by other countries, which are parties to the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. Foreigners and stateless persons recognised as refugees by other countries cannot be removed or forcibly returned to the countries where their lives or freedom are endangered for reasons of race, religion, ethnicity, nationality (citizenship), being a member of a particular social group or political opinion. This Law shall enter into force on the day following the day of its publication. No. 3671-VI. prepare and submit for consideration to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals on bringing the laws of Ukraine in line with this Law. ensure that central executive authorities bring their regulatory acts regulating the issues related to refugees in line. with this law.