This Law shall establish basic legal, organisational and financial principles of operation for higher education system. It provides conditions for strengthening co-operation of government authorities and businesses with the institutions of higher education based on the autonomy of the latter. It aims to combine education with science and production in order to train competitive human assets for high-technology and innovative development of the country. A higher military educational institution (institution of higher education with specific training conditions) trains cadets (trainees, students), adjuncts at certain higher education levels for further service in the positions of officer (sergeant, sergeant major) or commanding staff. A knowledge branch – a broad subject area of education and science harmonised with the International Standard Classification of Education. 13) competence – the ability of a person to successfully socialise, study and conduct professional activities that arise on the basis of a dynamic combination of knowledge, skills, ways of thinking, views, values and other personal qualities. 14) credit of the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (hereinafter referred to as ECTS credit) – a measurement unit for the amount of academic load on higher education applicant required to achieve certain learning results. 20) speciality – a subject area of education and science harmonised with the International Standard Classification of Education. 21) sustainable fund (endowment) – an amount of money or a value of other property intended for investment or capitalisation for at least 36 months. 22-2) temporarily displaced institution of higher education (scientific institution) – an institution that changed its location based on its founder's decision. The Legislation of Ukraine on Higher Education is based on the Constitution of Ukraine. The state policy on higher education shall be defined by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine and implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers. The rights of the institution of higher education to autonomy under this Law may not be restricted by other laws. Everyone shall have the right to education. Citizens of Ukraine shall be entitled to obtain free of charge higher education. The state shall facilitate the development of the institutions of higher education as centres of free opinion. Article 4. The Right to Higher Education 1. The right to higher education at the state and municipal institutions ofhigher education. The right to higher education shall be guaranteed regardless of age, citizenship, place of residence, gender, skin colour, social and property status, nationality, language, origin, health status, attitude to religion, criminal record, as well as other circumstances. Citizens of Ukraine who have not completed their studies for a certain academic degree at the expense of the state or local budget shall be entitled to re-obtain free of charge higher education. Higher educated specialists shall be trained under the relevant educational programmes at the following higher education levels. Obtaining higher education at each level presupposes successful completion of an educational programme, which is the basis for granting a relevant higher education degree. Junior bachelor is an educational or educational professional degree obtained at the primary level (short-term course) of higher education. A person shall be entitled to obtain a bachelor degree, provided that he/she has complete general secondary education. Bachelor is an educational degree obtained at the first level of higher education and granted by an institution of higher. education after a higher education applicant successfully completes the educational professional programme of 180–240 ECTS credits. To grant a master degree in medicine, pharmacy or veterinary on the basis of a junior bachelor degree or professional pre-higher education, the institution of. higher education will recognise and re-account the credits. Doctor of philosophy is an educational and at the same time academic degree obtained at the third level of higher education on the basis of a master degree. The standard period for training a doctor of philosophy within postgraduate studies (adjuncture) is four years. Scientific institutions may train doctors of philosophy under their own educational scientific programme. The volume of the educational component in the educational creative training programme for doctor of arts is 30–60 ECTS credits. Attestation is the ascertainment of compliance of higher education applicants' learning results (scientific or creative work) with the requirements of the educational programme and/or the unified state qualification examination programme. An examination commission, which may include the representatives of employers and their associations, shall grant a relevant higher education degree and assign an appropriate qualification. Dissertations of persons obtaining a doctor of philosophy degree, as well as related feedback and peer reviews shall be published on the official website of the relevant institution of higher education or scientific institution in accordance with the legislation. Discovering the facts of academic plagiarism, fabrication or falsification in the dissertation submitted for defending shall be a ground for denial of granting aDoctor of Philosophy degree. If the facts of academic plagiarism, fabrication or falsification are determined according to the legislation in the dissertation defended by an applicant for a doctor of philosophy degree, his/her academic supervisor shall be deprived of the right to participate in training and attestation of applicants. A document on higher education shall be issued to a person who has successfully completed the relevant educational programme. A European-standard addendum containing structured information about the completed studies shall be an integral part of the diploma of junior bachelor, bachelor, master, doctor of philosophy/doctor of arts. The addendum to the diploma shall provide information about learning results, educational components, obtained grades and number of acquired ECTS credits. The list of knowledge branches and specialities shall be elaborated on the basis of the International Standard Classification of Education. The institutions of higher education (scientific institutions) shall independently elaborate and approve the educational programmes taking into account the requirements for appropriate higher education level stipulated by the legislation and higher education standards. Higher education standards shall be elaborated for each higher education level within each speciality in accordance with the National Qualifications Framework. The standard content for training the higher education applicants under the relevant educational programmes shall be formed in terms of programme learning results. An individual curriculum shall be mandatory for a higher education applicant. The higher education system shall consist of: 1) the institutions of higher education of all property forms; 2) the higher education levels and degrees (qualifications); 3) the knowledge branches and specialities; 4) the educational and scientific programmes. 6. Higher education standards for each speciality shall be elaborated by the central executive authority for education and science. Central executive authority for education and science shall: 1) elaborate the strategy and programmes for the development of higher education; 2) participate in the formation and implementation of the state policy on higher education, science, training of higher educated specialists; 3) systematically monitor and analyse the needs of the domestic labour market. 8) establish special conditions for training specialists in priority high-technology areas. The attestation board transparently and openly approves the decisions of academic councils at the institutions of higher education and scientific institutions. The law also sets out the licensing terms for educational activities and submit them for approval to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It also establishes the procedure for assigning academic titles to the scientific and scientific-pedagogical staff. Government authorities in charge of the institutions of higher education shall: 1) participate in implementation of the state policy on higher education, science, professional training, licensing of educational activities conducted by the institutions higher education. 2. form proposals and place a state order for training higher educated specialists as stipulated by the legislation. 3. The institution of higher theological education shall be administered taking into account the peculiarities of its activities. Acts of the central executive authority for education and science, adopted within its powers, shall be binding on the government authorities, authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local governments in charge of the institutions of higher education. Letters, directives, guidelines and other documents issued by executive authorities, except for orders registered by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, shall not be considered regulatory acts. The Scientific and Methodical Council and scientific and methodical commissions shall be formed of representatives of the state, employers and their associations. The powers of the founder (founders) to administer the institution of higher education shall be determined by this and other laws of Ukraine, as well as by the institution's statute. Authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Local Governments in Charge of the Institutions of Higher Education. The founder of the institution of higher education or their authorised body may delegate some powers to the institution's head or other administrative body. The system used by the institutions of higher. education to ensure the quality of educational activities and quality of. higher education (internal quality assurance system) shall presuppose the following procedures and measures. The system used by the institution of higher education to. ensure the quality of educational activities and quality of higher. education (internal quality assurance system) shall be evaluated by the National Agency for. Higher Education Quality Assurance or accredited by it independent entities for higher education quality evaluation and assurance upon the institution's request. The National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance shall annually prepare and publish a report on higher education quality in Ukraine. Article 19. Members of the Agency shall consist of twenty-three persons appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine based on the decision of the Competition Committee. A person may not be a member of the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance if he/she: 1) has been declared incapable or partially capable by a court judgment; 2) has a criminal record for committing a criminal offence, if such criminal record has not been expunged or removed as stipulated by the law; 3) has. been deprived of the right to hold a certain position or conduct certain activities by a. court sentence; 4) found guilty of committing a corruption offence. Competition Committee established as an advisory body by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Period of membership in the Competition Committee shall be three years without the right to re-approval for a second period. Competition Committee consist of persons who have an academic degree and/or academic title or professional experience of at least five years. The National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance shall engage international experts, representatives of leading foreign higher educational institutions and/or experts in higher education quality assurance from other countries. The Ethics Committee shall consider the cases of academic plagiarism and submit the relevant proposals to the National Agency. The Appeals Committee will consider appeals, applications and complaints related to the activities and decisions of specialised academic councils. The National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance shall be a non-profit organisation. The branch expert councils of the National Agency shall be formed of 9 to 15 members for at most three years and shall consist of persons having an academic degree in the relevant knowledge branch or at least five-year professional experience in the branch. Decisions on all matters shall be made by a majority of the full branch expert council. The activities of the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance shall be funded from the following sources: 1) state budget funds; 2) funds received as payment for accreditations and licensing examinations; 3) grants for the improvement of higher education quality in Ukraine; 4) other sources not prohibited by the legislation. The amount of funds from the state budget to support the National agency, including the amount for its staff's salaries, shall be established annually. Peculiarities of licensing the educational activities under the educational programmes that presuppose assignment of professional qualifications in additionally regulated professions shall be stipulated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. To obtain a license for educational activities, a licensee shall submit an application and documents confirming compliance of the licensee's educational process with the licensing terms. The licensed scope shall be set at a certain higher education level or for a certain educational programme presupposing assignment of professional qualifications in additionally regulated professions. The decision to cancel the license shall be made on the following grounds: an application from the institution of higher education to cancel its own license; a record on termination of relevant legal entity in the Unified State Register. If the license is cancelled in accordance with Clauses 1, 3–5, 7, 8 of this Part, the institution of higher education shall forfeit the right to conduct higher educational activities. If the grounds specified in Part 5 of this Article are available, the licensing authority shall make a decision to narrow the educational activities within 15 days after the grounds are identified. A license for educational activities shall be re-issued without licensing procedure. When legal entities having licenses for. educational activities are reorganised by transformation, merger, division, separation or accession, the license shall be. re- issued based on the licenses of such legal entities. A new list of knowledge branches and specialities is approved. Institution of higher education must be accredited by the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance. Ukrainian institutions shall recognise the educational programme accreditation certificates issued by foreign accreditation agencies or higher education quality assurance agencies, the list of which shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Universities, academies, institutes – conducting scientific activities by means of research, ensuring creative activities of educational process participants. Participation in the social and economic development of the state through formation of human assets. Formation of personality through patriotic, legal, ecological training. Institutions of higher education may establish educational, educational scientific and educational scientific production complexes, science parks and be part of a consortium. All participants of the complex or consortium shall retain the status of legal entities and financial independence. An institution of highereducation shall operate on the basis of its own statute. A university, academy, institute, regardless of the property form, may be granted a status of the national institution in accordance with the legislation. An institution of higher education that ensures the development of the state in certain knowledge branches by combining education, science and innovation, facilitates the state's integration into the worldwide educational and scientific space, has recognised scientific achievements. An institution of higher education may obtain the status of research university under the following conditions. The research university shall be entitled to: 1) use the word “research” in its name; 2) receive a priority basic funding for scientific research under the Law of Ukraine “On Scientific and Scientific Technical Activities” The institution of higher education shall operate on the following principles: 1) autonomy and self-government; 2) delimitation of the rights, powers and responsibilities of the founder (founders), government authorities and local governments. 3) combination of collegial and unitary principles; 4) independence from political parties, public and religious organisations. 13-1) found or co-found the institutions of professional (vocational), professional pre-higher education, colleges. 14-2) set the standards for a number of studying persons per one position in scientific-pedagogical and scientific staff. 24-3) independently determine the items and amounts of expenditures from their own revenues. The structure of the institution of higher education, the status and functions of its structural units shall be determined by the institution's statute and provisions on the relevant structural units. The core structural units of the institutions of higher. education (except for colleges that do not provide bachelor training) shall be faculties, departments, library. Professional college may be a (separated) structural unit of the institution of higher education under the Law of Ukraine "On Professional Pre-Higher Education"; 5) other units, activities of which are not prohibited by the law. A clinical base of a medical educational institution, a university clinic or hospital shall be established to provide the educational process to persons studying at the institution. The establishment and operation of territorially separated structural units of the institutions of higher education in the cities of Kyiv, Kharkiv, Lviv, Dnipro and Odesa are not permitted. A university, academy, institute may have a military training unit, which trains cadets (trainees, students) for further service. The head of the institution of higher education within his/her powers shall: 1) organise the operation. 2) make decisions on financial and economic activities. 3) issue orders and directives. 4) account for the operation results. 5) manage the property and funds. 6) ensure implementation of the financial plan. The head of the institution of higher education is responsible for the institution's educational, scientific, scientific-technical and innovative activities. He/she must report annually to the founder (founders) or their authorised body (person) The head must publish the annual report on his/her activities on the official website. Department shall be administered by the department head (chief) who may hold the position for at most two periods. The department head must have an academic degree and/or academic (honorary) title that corresponds to the specialisation of the department. Academic council is a collegial administrative body at the institution of higher education. The academic council at the institution of higher education shall consist of the institution's head, deputy heads, heads of faculties (education-research institutes), academic secretary, library director, chief accountant. The chairman shall be elected for the period of the academic council's powers through secret ballot from among the members of the council. At least 75% of the academic council members must be scientific, scientific-pedagogical staff of the institution of higher education and at least 10% – elected student (cadet) representatives. Staff representatives shall be elected by the higher collegial public self-government body at the institution. The supervisory board shall be established by the decision of its founder. The supervisory board may not include higher education applicants and the staff of the institution of higher education. Operative bodies (rector's office, dean's offices, admission committee, administrative council, etc.) shall be established to address current matters. Advisory bodies (employer council, investor council, business council, student council, scientific council) must be established on a voluntary basis. The public self-government body at the educational scientific institute (faculty) is the meeting (conference) of the institute's labour collective, including elected representatives of the persons studying at the institution of higher education. At least 75% of the delegates must be scientific, scientific-pedagogical staff and at least 15% – student (cadet) representatives elected by students. Student self-government is the right and opportunity for students (cadets, except for military cadets) to decide on the matters of education and everyday life. All students studying at the institution of higher education shall have equal rights, including the right to elect and be elected to the operational, advisory, elected and other student self- government bodies. Student self-government body may be registered as a public organisation in accordance with the legislation, taking into account the peculiarities stipulated by this Law. Representative, executive and audit bodies of student self- government shall be elected for one year. Students (cadets) elected to the studentSelf-government bodies may be dismissed from their positions based on the results of the students' general secret ballot. The higher student self-government body is a general meeting (conference) of students (cadets) The head of the institution of higher education shall ensure appropriate working conditions for the bodies. The financial basis for the body shall consist of the funds determined by an academic council at the institution. Scientific societies of students (cadets, trainees), postgraduate students, doctoral students and young scientists are part of the public self-government system at the respective institutions of higher education. The amount of monthly membership fee per one person may not exceed 1% of the subsistence level established by the law. 3) promote scientific activities among student youth, facilitate engaging of students in scientific work and innovation. 4) represent the interests of students (cadets, trainees), postgraduate students, doctoral students and young scientists before the administration of the institution of higher education. 5) contribute to improving the research quality; 6) facilitate the exchange of information between young scientists and researchers. A candidate for the head of the state-property or municipal-property institution must be a citizen of Ukraine. A person may not be elected, appointed to the position of the head (including acting head) of the institution of higher education if he/she has a criminal record for committing a criminal offence. The following persons shall be entitled to elect the head of the institution of higher education: every scientific, scientific-pedagogical and pedagogical staff member. Student (cadet) representatives will be elected by direct secret ballot. Elections shall be considered valid if they have been attended by more than 50% of the total number of persons entitled to participate. If a person (candidate) elected under this Law has not passed a special inspection, the founder (founders) or their authorised body (person) shall announce a new competition to replace the institution's head. The head of the institution of higher education may be dismissed on the grounds defined by labour legislation or for violation of institution's statute and contract terms. The faculty (educational scientific institute) head may be dismissed by the head of the institution of higher education on the proposal of the academic council or the faculty's public self-government body. Other issues concerning the procedure for appointing the faculty (Educational scientific Institute) head shall be determined by the statute of the Institution of Higher Education. Competition within the established quotas for admission to Ukrainian institutions of higher education (scientific institutions) shall be accessible for orphan children and children deprived of parental care. Admission to education for junior bachelor or bachelor (master of medicine, pharmacy or veterinary) degree shall be based on the complete general secondary education followed by independent external evaluation of the applicants' knowledge, skills, creative and/or physical abilities. People residing on the temporarily occupied territory of Donetsk and Luhansk regions, along the armed conflict line, can apply for admission to Ukrainian institutions of higher education. They must take one-year free of charge and scholarship-backed preparatory courses at the institutions. They can also apply for entry to these institutions as internally displaced persons under the Terms and Conditions of Eligibility for Higher Education. Weight of score for special achievements by members of Ukrainian national teams at the international student olympiads or prize-winners of Stage IV at the National Student Olympiads in basic subjects. Score for successful completion of the preparatory course at the institution of higher education to enter this institution for natural-mathematical and engineering-technical specialities defined by the Terms and Conditions of Eligibility for Higher Education. The Admission Rules of the institution of higher education must contain the list of accredited and non-accredited educational programmes under which applicants are admitted. Foreign citizens and persons without citizenship shall be admitted to accredited educational programmes. The applicants shall be ranked based on the competitive score in each speciality and priorities defined by the applicants. The state shall provide targeted support for obtaining higher education as stipulated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the followong people: persons recognised as injured participants of the Revolution of Dignity, participants of combat operations, pesons disabled at war and their children. Heads of the institutions of higher education shall ensure the objectivity and transparency of the admission procedure. Person's admission to studies shall be grounded on compliance with the Terms and Conditions of Eligibility for Higher Education. Foreign citizens and persons without citizenship shall be admitted to studies on the basis of entrance examinations and academic rights. Independent external evaluation of learning results achieved at a certain higher education level may be used for admission to higher education and for attestation of higher education applicants. The detailed process of independent external evaluation shall be described by the state-authorised institutions (organisations) in relevant regulations. The state shall ensure that applicants with special educational needs have appropriate conditions for taking the independent External evaluation. Buildings and premises for independent external. evaluation must meet the accessibility requirements in accordance with the state construction. regulations and standards. Independent external evaluation of learning results shall be free of charge for persons completing field-specific secondary education. The content of certification tasks for independent external evaluation shall be treated as restricted information from the moment the certification task package is elaborated. The grounds for expulsion of higher education applicant shall be as follows: completion of studies under the relevant educational (scientific) programme. A person expelled from the institution of higher education before completing the educational programme shall receive an academic certificate containing the information on learning results, names of disciplines, received grades and number of obtained ECTS credits. The academic certificate template shall be established by the central executive authority for education and science. Higher education applicants conscripted to military service due to mobilisation shall be guaranteed their place of studies and scholarship are retained. The state language shall be used in the educational process at the institutions of higher education. A person shall be entitled to obtain higher education in various forms or a combination of them. If the accreditation certificate for the educational programme expires, the higher education applicants studying at the expense of the state (local) budget will be able to move to another institution. Part-time form of higher education combines learning classes and control measures during short sessions and self-mastering of the educational programme between them. Remote form of education is an individualised educational process organised mainly through indirect interaction between distant educational process participants in a specialised environment based on modern psychological, pedagogical, information and communication technologies. The institution of higher education shall be entitled to establish other forms of educational process and types of learning classes. The heads of enterprises, establishments and organisations must ensure appropriate conditions for on-the-job practising, observance of labour safety rules and regulations, safe practice and industrial sanitation. Student practising shall be conducted in accordance with the legislation. The following academic titles shall be granted in Ukraine: 1) senior researcher; 2) associate professor; 3) professor. Medical, pharmaceutical and other staff of clinical bases of the institutions of higher education, university clinics and university hospitals are persons who are engaged in medical, pharmaceutical or veterinary activities at their main place of employment. The list of positions of scientific staff at the institutions of higher education shall be determined under the Law of Ukraine “On Scientific and Scientific Technical Activities” Pedagogical staff members shall undergo attestation every five years. A person may not simultaneously hold two or more positions that presuppose exercising of administrative and managerial functions. Working time of scientific-pedagogical staff shall be 36 hours per week (reduced working hours) The maximum academic load per one salary of a scientific-Pedagogical employee may not exceed 600 hours per academic year. The standard time for educational, methodical, scientific, organisational activities shall be determined by the institution of higher education. Scientific-pedagogical, scientific and pedagogical staff at the institution of higher education shall enjoy all the rights stipulated by the legislation for scientific staff at scientific institutions. Staff are obliged to: 1) ensure high scientific-theoretical and methodical level of teaching the educational disciplines. Scientific-pedagogical, scientific and pedagogical staff at the institutions of higher education shall receive additional payments for doctor of philosophy and doctor of science degrees. Postgraduate education is a specialised refinement of education and professional training of a person by deepening, expanding and updating his/her professional knowledge. Cadet status may be granted to certain categories of persons studying at non-military institutions of higher education as stipulated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A person who has been duly admitted to the higher military educational institution and has a military rank of officer or corresponding special rank of medium or senior commanding staff shall have a status of a trainee.  Persons studying at the institutions of higher education shall be entitled to have safe and non-harmful conditions for studies, work and everyday life. They are entitled to use libraries, museums, information funds, educational, scientific and sports bases of the institution of highereducation free of charge. They can select the academic disciplines within the scope provided for by the relevant educational programme and curriculum. Study under several educational programmes or at several institutions of higher education, provided that only one higher education at each level is obtained at the expense of the state (local) budget. 16) exercise academic mobility, including international; 18) receive social assistance in cases stipulated by the legislation. 19) have the period of full-time studies at the institutions ofhigher education included in their pension insurance record. Academic scholarships shall be granted to persons who achieved considerable success in academic and/or scientific activities as stipulated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A fraction of students (cadets) entitled to academic scholarship shall be determined by an academic council at the institution of higher education. The state in co-operation with employers shall ensure the conditions for the graduates from the institutions of higher education to exercise their employment right. The state shall guarantee equal opportunities for choosing a place of employment and type of labour activity taking into account the acquired higher education and social needs. Scientific, scientific-technical and innovative activities at the institutions of higher education and scientific institutions of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, national branch academies of sciences shall be integrated. The main purpose of these activities shall be the acquisition of new scientific knowledge through research and design aimed at the creation of new competitive technologies. Scientific, scientific-technical and innovative activities at the institutions of higher education shall be conducted in accordance with the legislation. Government authorities in charge of the Institutions of Higher Education shall elaborate a policy on scientific, scientific and technical activities conducted directly by the institutions. The central executive authority for education and science shall elaborate proposals on the amount of budget funding.  Fundamental research shall be funded in the first place along with applied research activities conducted within the main directions of science and technology development. Government authorities and local governments in charge of the institutions of higher education shall determine the amount of separate budgetary funding for scientific activities. The state shall economically encourage the enterprises of various property forms to co-operate with the institutions. Objects of intellectual property rights shall be subject to evaluation. Based on the evaluation results, their value shall be reflected in the accounting of the institution of higher education as stipulated by the law. Expenditures of the state and municipal institutions of higher. education for legal protection of objects of intellectual. property rights, to which they acquired rights, shall be covered from. the institutions' own revenues. Own revenues of the state and municipal institutions of higher education, scientific institutions, received as payment for the services provided within educational, scientific and education-production activities, as well as charitable contributions and grants shall be credited to special registration accounts opened at a territorial body of the central executive authority for treasury servicing of budget funds. Buildings, structures and premises must meet the accessibility requirements in accordance with state construction regulations and standards. State institutions of higher education shall be funded from the state budget under the state order for training specialists, scientific and scientific-pedagogical staff, as well as from other sources not prohibited by the legislation. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local state administrations and local governments may fund the state institutions. Attracted funds shall be spent on the statutory activities. Financial plan (cost estimate) of the institution of higher education must include expenditures for development of material-technical and laboratory base. Indicators of the state order for training higher educated specialists shall be formed for every higher education level and speciality. The state order shall be placed on a competitive basis on the principles of fair competition, openness and transparency. The state order for training specialists with junior bachelor or bachelor (master of medicine, pharmacy or veterinary) degree shall be placed by concluding the corresponding contracts between the state customers in charge of the institutions of higher education and relevant Ukrainian institutions. Funding from the State Budget of Ukraine shall be established in the amount necessary to ensure training of at least 180 students per every 10 thousand people. The procedure for providing paid educational and other services, including the procedure for determining their cost for higher education applicants, shall be established by the central executive authority for education and science. The cost of the entire training for a relevant higher education degree or professional development shall be set by the institutions of higher education in the national currency. The state shall confirm the priority of regulations in the international treaties of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. The state shall take measures to develop and strengthen mutually beneficial international co-operation in the field of higher education and science under the bilateral and multilateral international treaties. The state supervision (control) over the observance of the education and science legislation, and educational activity standards by the institutions of higher education shall be carried out by the central executive authority for the state education policy. Article 76. Foreign Economic Activities in Higher Education. The institution of highereducation shall conduct foreign economic activities in accordance with the legislation by concluding contracts with foreign legal entities and individuals. Decisions and activities in the field of higher education, except for restricted information, shall be open. Information on decision-making procedures and results must be made public on the official websites and in mass media, on information stands and in any other way. The last admission for obtaining a specialist educational qualification level shall be held in 2016. This Law shall be enacted in one month after its publication. 1) after enacting this Law, higher education at a specialist educational qualification level (complete higher education) shall be equated to higher education with a master degree. 2) educational activities at a junior specialist educational. qualification level conducted by the institutions of higher education and initiated before enacting. this Law shall continue within the period of studies under the relevant. educational professional programme. 3) The last admission for obtaining higher education  shall be held in 2019; 4) a diploma on higher education at a junior specialist educational qualification level (primary higher education) will be equated to a diploma on higher education  Training of candidates and doctors of sciences initiated before 1 September 2016 shall be carried out by the institutions of higher education and scientific institutions. After enacting this Law, the candidate of science academic degree shall be equated to the doctor of philosophy academic degree. The senior scientific officer academic title shall beequate to the senior researcher academic title. The law states that colleges licensed to train specialists with a junior bachelor or bachelor degree shall include the relevant positions of scientific-pedagogical staff into their staff lists. The state order for training specialists with bachelor (master and specialist of medicine, pharmacy or veterinary) degree shall be placed prior to the admission campaign. The first composition of the National Agency for Higher Education Quality Assurance shall be formed within nine months. Private-property institutions of higher education established in the organisational and legal form of societies and in other forms stipulated by the legislation may continue their activities. The requirement that a candidate for the head of a college, its faculty or department must hold an academic title and academic degree shall be enacted in five years after the establishment of scientific-pedagogical positions at this college. The Law of Ukraine “On Higher Education” (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 2002, No. 20) until the provision on accreditation of educational programmes is approved as stipulated by this Law, such accreditation shall be carried out by the central executive authority for education and science. The listed below legislative acts of Ukraine shall be amended as follows. Temporarily relocated institutions of higher education shall retain the status of national institutions. Standards for the number of students per one position in scientific-pedagogical staff shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The central executive authority for education and science shall be entitled to initiate the transfer of field-specific vocational schools' founder rights to the relocated institutions. The law will ensure the establishment and operation of postgraduate studies, doctoral studies and specialised academic councils at the institutions of higher theological education. It will also ensure further state recognition of their academic degrees in scientific specialities included in the “Theology” field of science. New educational programmes, which reduce one ECTS credit to 30 hours and reduce the maximum academic load on scientific-pedagogical staff member to 600 hours, shall be enacted of 1 September 2015. Founders of the institutions of higher education shall be recommended to: 1) bring the types and statutes of educational institutions in line with this Law within two years.