This Law establishes the legal and organisational grounds for state market supervision and control of non-food products. It defines established requirements, product control, inspection of product samples and improper use of the mark of conformity to technical regulations. The Law of Ukraine “On General Safety of Non-Food Products’” also defines the area of responsibility of the market supervision authority. The terms “free circulation”, “declarant” and “customs control zone” shall be used in the meanings ascribed thereto in the Customs Code of Ukraine. This Law shall apply to the following relations: market supervision of products covered by the established requirements, except for product types specified in part five of this Article. This Law shall not apply to relations related to the supervision and control of such products: 1) services and works; 2) food products, nutrient additives, flavourings, dietary supplements and auxiliary materials for food processing; 3) animal products; 4) fodder, fodder additives and premixes; 5) live plants and animals. The purpose of market supervision is to take restrictive (corrective) measures with appropriate communication to the public of the information about products. The purpose of control of products is to ensure that products imported into the customs territory of Ukraine comply with the established requirements until they are put into free circulation. The aim is to prevent the import of products that pose a serious risk to public interests. Market supervision authorities and their officials shall ensure the protection of personal data and information that, according to the Law of Ukraine, is a commercial or other secret protected by the laws of Ukraine. Data and information shall not be subject to disclosure without the permission of the persons or bodies that provided them unless otherwise specified. Customs authorities and other government authorities shall be obliged to secure personal data, commercial and other secrets of business entities protected by the law of Ukraine. The provisions of this Article shall also apply to the information contained in the operational mutual notification system concerning the products that pose a serious risk. Business entities shall enjoy other rights defined by this Law, the Law of Ukraine “On General Safety of Non-Food Products”, other regulatory acts (including technical regulations) Business entities shall be obliged to effectively interact with each other, carrying out business activities. Upon request of market supervision authorities, business entities will have to provide them with documents. Market supervision shall be carried out by market supervision authorities within the areas of their responsibility. Market supervision authorities shall interact and share information with each other, as well as with customs authorities, central executive authorities that implement the supervision and control of products, law enforcement agencies, public consumer organisations (consumer associations) and associations of business entities. 4) conduct inspections of product characteristics, including a sampling of products and ensuring their examination (testing) 5) check on compliance with the requirements for the presentation of products at the venue of fairs, exhibitions, displays or otherwise demonstration of products that do not meet the established requirements. 6) make decisions on restrictive (corrective) measures in cases and control the state of execution of these decisions by business entities. Control of products shall be implemented by customs authorities. When implementing control of products, customs authorities shall interact with each other, with market supervision authorities, other central executive authorities and public consumer organisations. The powers and procedures for the activities of customs authorities concerning control of Products shall be determined by the Customs Code of Ukraine, this Law and other laws of Ukraine. The distribution of powers between the customs authorities, as provided for in part one of this Article, shall be determined by law. Officials engaged in market supervision shall have the right to: 1) carry out verification of documents and inspections of product samples, take product samples and ensure their examination (testing) in cases. 8) provide training, retraining and advanced training of officials engaged in the implementation of control of products. Officials engaged in market supervision and control of products shall be obliged to comply with the requirements of this Law, the Law of Ukraine “On General Safety of Non-Food Products” and regulatory acts adopted in accordance with them. Officials have the right to carry out verifications of documents and selective inspections of product samples. Officials engaged in market supervision and control of products shall be independent in the exercise of their powers. Counteraction, threats, violence or other actions that impede the performance of the powers by an official shall entail liability established by the Law of Ukraine. Any instructions or orders may not be the grounds for illegal actions or inactivity of officials. Market supervision shall be carried out in accordance with sectoral market supervision plans to be annually approved by market supervision authorities according to their areas of responsibility. Risk degrees of types of products and criteria for determining the belonging of products to relevant risk degrees shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the request of the central executive authority. Sectoral market supervision plans shall be approved by relevant market supervision authorities no later than 1 December of the year preceding the planned one. Proposals for draft sectoral market supervision. plans and amendments thereto submitted by interested executive. authorities, associations of business entities, public consumer. organisations, scientific, technical and engineering societies and unions, shall be subject to mandatory review. Market supervision measures shall be as follows: 1) inspections of product characteristics, including a sampling of products. 2) restrictive (corrective) measures, including: a) restrictions on the placement of products on the market. 3) warning by market supervision authorities of consumers (users) of the danger posed by products, as identified by these authorities. 4) proportionality of restrictive measures to the level of threat to public interests. Market supervision authorities shall conduct scheduled and unscheduled inspections of product characteristics. When inspecting a certain type of product, it is prohibited to inspect another type, category and/or group of products. In case of receiving information about the provision of products on the market that pose a serious risk, relevant orders and assignments shall be issued and executed. Products under customs control are subject to inspection. The market supervision authority has the right to require the provision of such documents only to the extent necessary to establish the supply chain of products. In case of a translation referred to in clause 3, part one of Article 15 of this Law, the period of inspection of product characteristics shall be suspended. If the results of the inspection of product characteristics indicate that products are dangerous, pose a risk and/or do not meet the established requirements, the market supervision authority shall take measures to identify a manufacturer or a person being considered to have put the products into circulation. Market supervision authorities shall have the right to request from designated conformity assessment authorities and recognised independent organisations to provide information. Inspections of product characteristics on the grounds specified in subclause “a”, clause 2, part one of Article 24 and clause 2. of Article 25 of this Law. The market supervision authorities shall report on the results of these inspections to persons, under whose requests they were conducted. Market supervision authorities shall conduct the following inspections of product characteristics at distributors: 1) scheduled — in accordance with sectoral market supervision plans; 2) unscheduled: surname, name and patronymic of persons involved in the inspection. If a business entity does not agree with the act, it shall sign the act with comments. A person, which put such products into circulation and a person, due to which actions or inactivity the products are dangerous, pose a risk and/or do not meet the established requirements, shall be identified against the supply chain of products. The objects of inspection shall be: a) presence of a mark of conformity to technical regulations if its application is provided by technical regulations for the relevant type of products, and compliance with the requirements for form, description, rules and conditions. Market supervision authorities shall conduct the following inspections of product characteristics at manufacturers: 1) if there are documented grounds to believe that the products are dangerous, pose a risk and/or do not meet the requirements. 2) at the following stages of the inspection, the following may be conducted: a) inspection of samples of relevant products and identification of a manufacturer; b) selection and examination (testing) of product samples. 3) in case of receiving information on products that pose a serious risk. Market supervision authorities shall: 1) apply to the designated conformity assessment authorities for consideration of the issue of establishing restrictions for the documents issued by them on the conformity of such products, their suspension or cancellation. 2) If the results of inspections of product characteristics at manufacturers have established that the relevant products are dangerous, pose a risk and/or do not meet the established requirements, the market supervision authorities will apply to them. Inspections of product characteristics at the venue of fairs, exhibitions, shows and otherwise demonstrations of products. If there are grounds to believe that there are products that do not meet the established requirements presented at the fair, exhibition, display or otherwise demonstration of products, the market supervision authority shall conduct the inspection of characteristics of these products.  Selection of product samples and their examination (testing) shall be conducted in accordance with the Law of Ukraine “On the Main Principles of State Supervision (Oversight) in the Area of Commercial Activity’ Article 27. Copies of the improvement notice and decision specified in parts three and four of this Article shall be handed over to a person who/which organises the fair, exhibition, display or otherwise demonstration of products. The period of the examination (testing) of product samples may not exceed thirty working days from the date of the decision on its conduct. Samples of products used for the examination, the value of which does not exceed the limit set by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, shall be sold at public biddings (auctions) The market supervision authority shall report on the products posing a serious risk to the conformity assessment authorities. The technical regulations for a certain type of products may establish the special aspects of the application of restrictive (corrective) measures provided for in this Article. The list of violations of the established requirements, which are considered formal non-compliance, shall be specified in the relevant technical regulations. The market supervision authority shall take the following restrictive measures: restrictions, ban to place products on the market, withdrawal of the products from circulation, recall of products. The technical regulation for a certain type of products may establish the special aspects of the application of restrictive (corrective) measures provided for in this Article. Products placed on the market must be brought into compliance with established requirements. Business entities in the supply chain of the relevant products shall be required to cooperate with each other, in order to bring products in compliance. Restrictions may apply to products placed on market, including those stored in the warehouses of manufacturers and/or products held by consumers. Market supervision authorities may also apply restrictions on putting products into circulation or their distribution. Ban to place the products on the market shall not apply to actions related to the return of such products to their distributor or manufacturer. Withdrawal of products from circulation and recall of products shall be carried out on the initiative of a manufacturer of these products or within the scope of execution of the relevant decision. Products withdrawn from circulation or recalled at the initiative of a manufacturer shall be brought, at its discretion, in compliance with the established requirements. Simultaneously with the decision to withdraw products from circulation and/or recall them, the market supervision authority may make a decision on the ban or temporary ban to place such products on the market.  Restrictive (corrective) measures shall be introduced by the relevant decisions of market supervision authorities. Decisions on restrictive measures may be made following the results of inspections of product characteristics. Measures must be proportional to the level of threat the relevant products pose to the public interest. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall approve the methodology of restrictive (corrective) measures, which should define clear and understandable criteria for risk assessment, conditions and circumstances. The decision of the market supervision authority on the ban or restriction to place the products on the market, withdrawal of products from circulation or their recall shall indicate the grounds for making such a decision. Before making a decision on restrictive (corrective) measures, the market supervision authority shall submit (send) a draft decision with a proposal to provide in writing its explanations, objections to the draft decision. A business entity, to which the draft. decision relates, shall have the right to submit its explanation, objections and/or. information to such a draft. The market supervision authorities shall monitor the state of execution of decisions on restrictive (corrective) measures. The provisions of parts eleven to seventeen of this Article shall not apply to the procedures for making and amending decisions on the temporary ban to place the products on the market. If necessary, the inspection of product samples may be conducted. The market supervision authority shall immediately make a decision to cancel such a decision. After the cancellation of a decision on restrictive (corrective) measures, except for decisions on a ban to place the products on the market, the market supervision authorities shall monitor the effectiveness of such measures. Market supervision authorities shall take measures to warn consumers (users) in good time of the danger identified by these authorities that the relevant products pose. The relevant information shall be disseminated through the media and the Internet. Appeals against decisions, improvement notices, actions and inactivity of market supervision authorities and their officials may be appealed in court. The customs authority shall suspend the customs clearance of products presented for customs control and customs clearance, if the results of verification of documents and/or selective inspection of product samples conducted by this authority established that these products pose a serious risk to the public interest. Procedures for control of products shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The customs authority shall notify the market supervision authority, which areas of responsibility relate to market supervision of the relevant type of products, of the suspension of customs clearance of such products. If necessary, the product characteristics can be inspected at the place of their storage under customs control. This inspection shall be conducted taking into account the information specified in the notification of the customs authority. If market supervision authority has established that products pose a serious risk, it shall take measures to ban the placing of such products on the market. Market supervision authority shall apply to the customs authority that suspended customs clearance with a request not to release such products for free circulation. If the products specified in parts one and two of this Article are subsequently declared under a customs regime other than the regime of import, re-import or any other customs regime providing for the free circulation of these products in the customs territory of Ukraine, the notes provided for in this Article shall also be introduced in the documents required for customs control. Ukraine may have access to international, regional and foreign notification systems concerning products that pose a serious risk. Market supervision and control of products shall be financed from the state budget. The national market supervision information system shall be established and operated for the purpose of automated support of measures for market supervision. Funds of international technical assistance may be raised to: 1) ensure the establishment and operation of the operational mutual notification system concerning products that pose a serious risk; 2) retrain and professionally develop officials engaged in market supervision and control of products; 3) implement measures of international cooperation in the field of product safety. Non-execution or incomplete execution of a decision on restrictive (corrective) measures as specified in Article 29 of this Law, except for the elimination of formal non-compliance. Failure to comply with the improvement note on immediate elimination of violations of requirements for presentation at the venue of fair, exhibition, display or otherwise demonstration of products. Administrative and economic sanctions shall be imposed on a person who has placed the products on the market. Amounts of penalties imposed by market supervision authorities shall be credited to the State Budget of Ukraine. Liability for violation of other requirements of this Law shall be established in accordance with the law. A business entity has the right to appeal against a decision to impose a penalty to the head of the market supervision authority, as well as in court. If the decision is appealed in court, a business entity shall pay a penalty. In case of non-payment of the penalty within the specified period, it shall be collected in court;. Payment of a penalty does not release a business entities from its liability for damages caused to consumers (users) of products. Market supervision authorities and customs authorities shall cooperate with the relevant authorities of other states, and international organisations. International cooperation in the field of product safety, market supervision and control of products shall be carried out by means of conclusion of international treaties and participation in the work of relevant international and regional organisations. Market supervision authorities shall consider cases of administrative offences related to violations of the legislation on market supervision and general product safety (Article 188-37). The following persons shall have the right to consider cases and impose administrative penalties on behalf of market supervision authorities: heads of central executive authorities implementing market supervision. The amount of money paid for the products to be returned to a buyer in case of recall of products shall be determined based on the price of such products at the time of recall. 3) replacement of products with the same products or similar products from among those available at a seller (manufacturer) The exchange of notifications between market supervision authorities and authorities of revenues and duties shall be carried out by transmitting such notifications by means of electronic document distribution. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall: 1) within two months from the date of publication of this Law, determine the market supervision Authorities and their areas of responsibility; 2) within six months from  publication of the Law, ensure the creation of the national market supervision information system.