This Law regulates relations in the field of rationing in construction. It determines the legal and organisational principles of the development, agreement, approval, registration and application of construction regulations. The term “Unified state electronic system” is used in this Law in the meaning given in the Law of Ukraine “On Regulation of City Planning Activity” The state policy in the field of rationing in construction is based on the following principles: 1) creation of a safe environment for human health and life activities (including for persons with disabilities and other groups with low mobility); 2) open, transparent and democratic procedure for developing, agreeing and approving construction regulations; 3) availability of information on current construction regulations. Competence of the central executive authorities in the field of rationing in construction includes: approving, amending, recognising as invalid, cancelling sectoral construction regulations and coordinating and verifying their development. The methods of rationed in construction include parametric, administrative and target methods.  buildings should be designed and constructed in such a way that in the event of a fire: the load-bearing capacity of structures has been maintained for a certain period of time; the occurrence and spread of fire and smoke inside the building or structure has been limited. The possibility to evacuate people or otherwise rescue them has been ensured. The safety of the rescuers was taken into account. Buildings and structures should be designed and constructed in such a way that the amount of energy used during operation is low, taking into account the needs of residents and the climatic conditions of the location of the building or structure. The central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of construction, creates a central fund of construction regulations. Rationing works in construction are basic organisations in construction. The project sectoral construction regulation are subject to approval by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of construction. Justified deviations from the construction regulations that ensure observance with the stipulated safety requirements may be agreed upon by the subject of rationing. State and sectoral construction regulations are subject to registration within one month of their approval with the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of construction. Registration of construction regulations, changes to them is done by means of an entry in the Unified State Electronic System. Construction regulations do not contain legal norms. Construction regulations are not subject to copyright. The right of ownership of the construction regulations belongs to the state. Liability for non-observance with the requirements of construction regulations is established by law. This Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication. The words “state standards” shall be replaced with the words ‘construction regulations, state standards’ In part one of Article 1: in the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs, the words “state standards” shall be replaced with “construction regulations, state standards’ In part two of Article 23 of the Law of Ukraine “On Settlement Improvement” (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 2005, No. 49, Article 517) the words "state standards" shall be. replaced with the words’construction. regulations. Within three months of the enactment of this Law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall ensure the adoption of. regulations resulting from this Law. Develop a programme to review the state construction regulations adopted before the entry into force of this Law. – ensure the formation of the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of construction, the central fund of construction regulations. – include in this fund of texts of all current state construction. regulations, sectoral construction regulations and state construction rules.