This law establishes the procedure for concluding, executing and terminating international treaties of Ukraine. It is intended to properly ensure national interests, implement the goals, objectives and principles of Ukraine's foreign policy. The law shall be applied to all international treaties regulated by the norms of international law and to those concluded in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the requirements of this Law. International treaties of Ukraine are concluded: by the President of Ukraine or in the name of Ukraine on his behalf; by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; by ministries and other central executive authorities, state authorities – on behalf of ministries, other centralexecutive authorities, and state authorities. Proposals for the conclusion of international treaty of Ukraine include the following documents: Proposals for the conclusion of international treaties of Ukraine shall be submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Other central government authorities and state collegial bodies, as well as the Supreme Court, the National Bank of Ukraine, and the Prosecutor General’s Office submit proposals. The President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine have the right to negotiate and sign international treaties of Ukraine without special powers. Proposal submission procedure for the conclusion of interdepartmental agreements is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Preparation of proposals in accordance with this Article is carried out by the ministry. Ukraine's consent to be bound by an international treaty may be granted by signing, ratifying, approving, accepting the treaty, or joining the treaty. Ratification of international treaties of Ukraine is carried out by adopting the Law On Ratification. The Law adopted by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine On Ratifications of an International Treaty on Changing the Territory of Ukraine. Proposals for ratification of an international treaty of Ukraine shall be submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine within six months from the date of its signing. These include proposals on military assistance and deployment units of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to other states, as well as on receiving loans from foreign states and international financial organisations. The President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall consider proposals for the ratification of an international treaty of Ukraine. The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine considers the draft Law On Ratification of an International Treaty of Ukraine submitted by the President and makes an appropriate decision. The state bodies specified in Part 6 of this Article, at the request of the Verkhovsky Rada, provide additional information regarding the draft law. Exchange of ratification instruments and transfer of instruments on ratification of international treaties of Ukraine for storage to depositories shall be carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. When signing, ratifying, approving, accepting or acceding to an international treaty, declarations and reservations to its provisions may be made in accordance with the norms of international law. Proposals for the approval of an international treaty of Ukraine are made by the ministry, another central executive authority or a state collegial body. Approval of interdepartmental treaties, except for the treaties specified in Clause “b”, Part 3 of this Article, is carried out in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. International treaties come into force for Ukraine after it has given its consent to be bound by an international treaty. Decision on Ukraine's accession to interdepartmental treaties or on their adoption shall be made in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Current international treaties of Ukraine are part of the national law and are applied in accordance with the procedure prescribed for the norms of national law. If an international treaty of Ukraine establishes rules other than those provided for in the relevant act of Ukrainian legislation, then the rules of the international treaty shall be applied. If the execution of the treaty can harm the national interests of Ukraine, such a treaty can be terminated. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine performs the functions of depositary of multilateral international treaties if, in accordance with the terms of these treaties, such functions are assigned to Ukraine. Originals of international treaties of Ukraine or, where appropriate, their duly certified copies and official translations are kept at the Ministry. Treaty does not affect the rights, obligations or legal status of Ukraine arising from the performance of the treaty prior to its termination. Suspension of the effect of an international treaty of Ukraine releases Ukraine from the obligation to fulfill it during the period of suspension. Procedure for monitoring the execution of this Law and international treaties of Ukraine shall be established. Law of Ukraine “On the Effect of International Treaties in the Territory of Ukraine” (Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 1992, No. 10, Art. 137); Law of Ukraine "On International treaties of Ukraine" (Bulletsin, 1994, No, 10, art. 45); Resolution of the Rada "On the Procedure for Enactment of the Law" (Bolton, 2004).