The Law regulates the relations arising with respect to the state registration of legal entities, their symbols (in the cases provided for in law), public organisations that do not have the status of a legal entity, and individual entrepreneurs. Section I. GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1. Definitions. State registration of legal entities, public organisations that do not have the status of a legal entity, and individual entrepreneurs (hereinafter – state registration) is the official recognition by the state by certifying the fact of establishment or dissolution. The United State Register is a united state information system for gathering, accumulating, processing, protecting, recording and providing information on legal entities. An heir or legal successor of a member of a limited liability company, an additional liability company or a person authorised by them – when applying for accession to a company under the procedure of inheritance (legal succession) for state registration of changes in the information on a legal entity contained in the United State Register. A person who acquired membership interest (part of the membership interest) in the charter capital of a company. An individual entrepreneur, or a person authorised by them – when submitting documents for other state registration actions in respect of the individual entrepreneur; a state body, relatives (husband, wife, parents, children, grandchildren, grandparents, brothers, sisters) and heirs of an individual entrepreneur. An access code to the results of administrative services in the field of state registration (hereinafter – access code) is a unique digital sequence of 6 to 12 characters generated automatically. 12) principle of tacit consent in the field of state registration. 13) registration file is a set of documents in paper and/or electronic form, which were submitted for registration actions. 14) state registration entity: Ministry of Justice of Ukraine – in case ofState registration of political parties, all-Ukrainian trade unions, their associations. Executive authorities of village, settlement and city councils (except for cities of regional significance and/or republican significance in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) shall be empowered to state registration of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs. Technical error is a clerical, typographical, grammatical, arithmetical error made by the state registrar when carrying out registration actions. The scope of this Law shall apply to relations arising in the field of state registration of legal entities regardless of organisational and legal form. State registration of individual entrepreneurs on the grounds of documents submitted in paper and electronic form, shall be held regardless of their location. The Law may establish peculiarities ofState registration of public organisations, religious organisations. State registration of changes in the information on a legal entity contained in the United State Register as a result of notarisation of the transaction involving the alienation (transfer) of the founder’s interest in the charter (authorised) capital (unit trust) shall be carried out by a notary. In case of valid reasons (extraordinary or unavoidable under given conditions event (force majeure), state registration of the relevant notarial action may be carry out by another notary upon agreement with them. The provisions of this part shall also apply to cases of other registration actions performed by a notary, who, under the conditions defined by parts 2 and 3 of this Article, cannot carry out the registration actions within the periods defined by this Law. An individual entrepreneur shall be deprived of the status of an entrepreneur from the date of entry in the United State Register. The system of authorities in the field of state registration shall consist of: 1) the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine; 2) other state registration entities. Representative offices of foreign business entities shall be subject to registration in the manner prescribed by the Law of Ukraine “On Foreign Economic Activity” A state registrar may be a citizen of Ukraine, who has higher education, meets the qualification requirements defined by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and is in labour relations with the state registration entity. State registrar shall necessarily use the information from registers, automated information systems held (disposed, owned, administrated) by state bodies through direct access to them. The use of the State Civil Register, the Unified State Demographic Register and the State Register of Individual Taxpayers shall be made directly by the state registrar, which carries out the relevant state registration. The scope of civil legal capacity shall be determined, and the authority of the representative shall be verified in respect of the founder (member) who owns an interest in the charter. The scope of civil legal capacity shall be determined, and the authority of the representative shall be verified in respect of the person who acquires or owns the property (corporate) rights in the legal entity. The scope of authority of such a person shall be established on the ground of a document confirming their authority to act on behalf of another person. The state registrar shall have no right to carry out registration actions in respect of themselves, their husband or their wife, their relatives (parents, children, grandchildren, grandparents, brothers, sisters), as well as legal entities the founder (member) of which they are. In case of armed conflict, temporary occupation, anti-terrorist operation, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine may decide to temporarily block access of state registrars to the United State Register. Ukrainian law allows state registration under the principle of extraterritoriality. It also allows for the storage of information on legal entities, other organisations and individual entrepreneurs for a period of 75 years. The United State Register and its software shall be an item of state property. The United State Register shall contain information on a legal entity, except for state bodies and local governments as legal entities. The operational procedure for the portal of electronic services, which determines inter alia the algorithm for generating a digital code of a model charter, shall be approved by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. 4) type of public organisation (political party, a structural unit of a political party; public association, a local branch of a public association with the status of a legal entity) 5) data on status of public organisations; 6) central or local executive authority with the scope of administration including legal entity of public law. 7) purpose of the activity of apublic organisation; 8) list of founders and members. 9) information on the ultimate beneficial owner of a legal entity. 10) location of legal entity; 11) types of activities; 12) information of managerial bodies of legal entities. 13) information about members of governing bodies. 14) amount of charter (authorised) capital (unit trust) and amount of membership interest of each of the founders (members) 17) information on a constituent document under which the public organisation operates. 18) information for communication with a legal entity: phone number, e-mail address; 19) date and number of the entry in the United State Register. 20) data on separate units of a legal entities: identification code of a separate unit. Information on structural units of a political party that do not have the status of a legal entity: date and number of the entry in the United State Register, name (full, abbreviated), date of legalisation (registration) and registration number in the paper Register of Regional, City, District Organisations or Other Structural Units. 32) information on the prohibition of the activity of a public organisation: annulment of registration or prohibition of activity of political party. 33) grounds for suspending the examination of documents; 34) information. on sending a notification to law enforcement bodies in case of doubts about the authenticity of the submitted documents. 35) Grounds for refusal of state registration; 36) Information on cancellation of registration actions; 37) information about a state registration entity and a state registrar.  date and number of a decision by a licensing authority to dismiss an application for a license and reject to issue the license. Information on locations where the licensee is engaged in the economic activity subject to licensing (including the date of adding information on the locations of the economicactivity) ground, date, number of decision to renew the license, its effective date. The United State Register shall contain the following information on state bodies and local governments as legal entities: 1) name of a legal entity, including its abbreviated name (if any); 2) identification code; 3) organisational and legal form; 4) location of legal entity; 5) types of activities; 6) data on an executive directive by virtue of which the legal entity has been established (except for local councils and their executive committees) 7) information on the head of a legal entity: surname, name, patronymic, position, date of appointment or vesting with powers, taxpayer identification number or passport series and number. The United State Register shall contain the following information on an individual entrepreneur: 1) surname, name, patronymic; 2) date of birth; 3) taxpayer identification number or passport series and number (for individuals having a note in their passport on the right to make payments); 4) country of citizenship; 5) location (address of residence for communication with an individual entrepreneurs); 6) types of activities. 19) information received under the information interaction between the United State Register and the information systems of state bodies. 20) information on licensing the economic activity of a business entity: type of economic activity subject to licensing, which the licensee is entitled to engage in; date and number of a decision by a licensing authority.  information on recognising the licence as invalid including the date and number of a decision (if any); information on the state body (name, identification code) and the surname, name and patronymic of the official who made an entry into the United State Register. Information on the establishment of a family farm by an individual entrepreneur.  list of founders of a public association: surname, name, patronymic, date of birth, country of citizenship, place of residence, taxpayer identification number (if any), passport series and number, if the founder is an individual. If founder is a legal entity: name, country, residence, location and identification code, if founder is legal entity. Note on the termination of powers as a founder of public organisation in connection with state registration information on head of public association.  date of a power of attorney in the name of the head of a separate unit of a foreign non-governmental organisation. date of registration and number in the Register of Citizens’ Associations (for separate units registered before 1 January 2013); date and number of the entry in the United State Register. type of a constituent document (if any); grounds for suspending the examination of documents; grounds for refusal of state registration; information on cancellation of registration actions. A constituent part of the United State Register is the United Register of Insolvency Practitioners of Ukraine. It contains the following information: 1) registration number of an entry on an insolvency practitioner; 2) taxpayer identification number or passport series and number (for individuals having a note in their passport on the right to make payments under passport series); and 3) surname, name, patronymic. The information contained in the United State Register shall be used for identification of a legal entity or its separate unit. The requirements of this Article shall not apply to the legal relations regulated by the legislation of Ukraine in the field of preventing and countering the legalisation (laundering) of the proceeds of crime.  information from the United State Register, which is up-to-date at the moment of request, necessary for the issue of authorisation documents and licences. Information on location, e-mail address, digital code of a model charter, types of activities, central or local executive authorty with scope of administration including a state enterprise. Private law entities may be granted real-time direct access to the United State Register in electronic form on a paid basis. Banks, credit history bureaus, based on their electronic request, shall receive information. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may determine other forms of providing information from the U.S. Register. The results of administrative services in the field of state registration shall be subject to mandatory free of charge publication on the portal of electronic services. Information interaction between the United State Register and the information systems of the state bodies in the cases determined by this Article shall be carried out by information and telecommunication means in electronic form. The technical administrator of the United State Register shall ensure the transfer of information from an application for state registration of the establishment of a legal entity to the central executive authority implementing the state tax policy. Information from the U.S. Register will be used to register an individual entrepreneur as a payer of value-added tax and/or inclusion into the Register of Non-Profit Institutions and Organisations.  date of an entry on registration, name and identification code of the state statistics authority. Financial statements on the economic activity of a legal entity (except for budgetary institutions) as a part of the balance sheet and profit and loss statement. confirmation of assigning a taxpayer identification number to an individual stating this number.  date and number of an entry on registration as a payer of taxes and fees, name and identification code of the tax authority. A legal entity, its separate unit, a separate unit of a foreign non-governmental organisation, a representative office, a branch of aforeign charitable organisation and an individual entrepreneur is registered. The period by which a legal entity, its separate unit, a separate unit of a foreign non-governmental organisation is registered with the tax authority is 30 calendar days. The Pension Fund of Ukraine shall ensure the transfer of the following information to the United State Register: on no (any) arrears on payment of insurance funds to the Pension Fund and social insurance funds. Documents for state registration may be submitted in paper or electronic form. In paper form the documents shall be submitted personally by an applicant or by post. If the documents are submitted inPaper form, the applicant shall present a passport of a citizen of Ukraine or other identity document provided for in the Law of Ukraine. Documents in electronic form shall be submitted by the applicant using the United State Web Portal of Electronic Services. In case the applicant is a foreigner or stateless person, the identity document shall be a national, diplomatic or service passport of the foreigner or another identity document. If the documents are submitted by a representative, a copy of the original (a notarised copy thereof) document certifying their powers (unless information on the powers of such representative is contained in the U.S. Register) will be submitted in addition. The documents shall be written in the state language and additionally, at the request of the applicant, in another language. The authenticity of signatures on such a decision shall be notarised with the obligatory use of special forms of notarial documents, except for decisions created on the portal of electronic services and signed with a qualified electronic signature. A decision to dissolve a legal entity shall contain information on the membership of the dissolution commission (reorganisation commission, winding-up commission), its chairman or liquidator, taxpayer identification numbers or passport series and number. The authenticity of signatures in the constituent document of a legal entities set out in writing shall be notarised, except in cases provided for by law. The authenticity of signatures in the transfer certificate and spin-off balance sheet of the legal entity shall be notarised with the obligatory use of special forms of notarial documents. The effect of paragraph 1 of this clause in terms of notarisation of signature authenticity shall not apply to the state registration of a state body, a local government, a public association, charitable and religious organisations. The name of a legal entity shall contain information on its organisational and legal form (except for state bodies, local governments, authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, state, municipal organisations, institutions, as well as the case provided for in paragraph 2 of this part) and the name. The name may not be identical to the name of another legal entity. Full or abbreviated names of state bodies or local governments or derivates of these names, or historical state names, are prohibited. Documents submitted by the applicant for state registration of a legal entity. Documents include a copy of the original (a notarised copy of) decision of the founders, and in the cases provided for by law – decision of relevant state body, to establish a legal entities. A list of signatures of citizens of Ukraine in the form established by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine – in case of state registration of establishment of a political party. A notarized copy of the identity document of an ultimate beneficial owner of a legal entity – for a non-resident individual. An extract, abstract or another document from the commercial, bank or court register confirming the registration of a foreign entity in its host country. An application for state registration of the establishment, dissolution of a legal entity, changes in the information about it shall be submitted. State registration for the reorganisation of local governments as legal entities after the voluntary amalgamation of territorial communities shall be subject to the peculiarities provided for in the Law of Ukraine “On Voluntary Amalgamation of Territorial Communities” An application for state registration of entering the information on a legal entity in the United State Register. A religious organisation with a charter registered before 1 January 2013 must be registered. A register of persons (citizens) who participated in the meeting of an authorised managerial body of a legal entities. A notarised copy of a decision by an authorised managerial body of a legal entity to secede from the founders (members) of the legal entity or a photocopy of a death certificate of an individual. A statement on opting for the simplified taxation system and/or a registration statement on voluntary registration as a payer of value-added tax. An application for inclusion into the Register of Non-Profit Institutions and Organisations. 1) a decision by the general meeting of members of a limited liability company, an additional liability company to expulse a member from the company. 2) a document on payment of the administrative fee; 3) a court judgement, which has become legally effective, on determining the amount of the charter capital.  authenticity of signatures of the members, who voted for decisions specified in subclauses “a’, “b”, ‘h’ and ‘j’ of this part, shall be notarised with the obligatory use of special forms of notarial documents. If the law or the charter of a company requires the consent of other members to secede from a company, such consent shall also be submitted.  application for state registration of the transition from its own constituent document to the operation under a model charter. If model charter is multi-version, the version of the model charter, under which it operates, shall be stated in the application. A notarised copy of the identity document of an ultimate beneficial owner of a legal entity – for a non-resident individual – and if such document is executed without application of the Unified State Demographic Register. The following documents shall be submitted for the state registration of a decision to dissolve a legal entity adopted by its members or a relevant body of the legal entity, and in cases provided by law – by a relevant state body: 1) a copy of the original (a notarised copy thereof) decision by members of a legal entities. 2) a document approving the membership of a dissolution commission (reorganisation commission, winding-up commission) or a liquidator. The following documents shall be submitted for the state registration of the dissolution of a legal entity due to its reorganisation after the dissolution procedure but not before the expiry of the period for creditors to submit their claims. The documents include a copy of the original (a notarised copy thereof) spin-off balance sheet. A decision by the Deposit Guarantee Fund to approve the report on completion of bank winding-up shall be submitted for the state registration of dissolution of a bank due to the adoption of a decision to revoke a banking license and wind-up the bank. A notarised copy of the identity document of an ultimate beneficial owner of a legal entity – for a non-resident individual – and if such document is executed without application of the Unified State Demographic Register – for resident individual. Legal entities shall have information on the ultimate beneficial owner and an ownership structure. The form and content of the ownership structure shall be established by a central executive authority ensuring the formation and implementation of the state policy in the field of preventing and countering the legalisation (laundering) of the proceeds of crime. An application for state registration of an individual as an entrepreneur may specify a request for registration of such a person as a payer of value-added tax. A notarised written consent of parents (adoptive parents) or guardian or trusteeship authority – for an individual who has attained the age of sixteen years and wishes to engage in entrepreneurial activities. One of the following documents shall be submitted for the state registration of the termination of entrepreneurial activity of an individual entrepreneur. It shall be prohibited to request additional documents for registration actions if they are not stipulated by this Article. Article 19. Documents submitted by the applicant for state registration. of a public association that does not have the status of a legal entity. An application for state registration of changes in the information on a public association that does not have the status of a legal entity contained in the United State Register. A copy of the original (a notarised copy thereof) decision by an authorised managerial body of the public association. A list of the arbitrators. The state registration of a primary branch of a political party shall be carried out without granting the status of a legal entity by means of notification on the establishment of the primary branch. The following documents shall be submitted for the state registration. of a structural unit of a. political party that does not have the Status of a Legal entity. The state registration in Ukraine of a separate unit of a foreign non-governmental organisation, a representative office, a branch of aforeign charitable organisation shall be carried out through its accreditation without acquiring the status of a legal entity. The following documents shall be submitted for the accreditation: 1) an application for state registration. 2) a copy of the document issued by an authorised body of a. foreign state that confirms the registration of a foreign non-governmental organisation. A power of attorney (a notarised copy thereof) in the name of the head of a separate unit of a foreign non-governmental organisation, a representative office, a branch. A document on payment of the administrative fee. A redrafted constituent document (charter, regulations) – in case of changes in the constituent documents. The following documents shall be submitted for the state registration of changes in the information on symbols contained in the United State Register. The documents include a notarised copy of a decision by an authorised managerial body of a legal entity on approval of the symbols, definition of the type of symbols, their description, and for political parties also the text of anthem and/or motto. Documents submitted by the applicant for state registration of confirmation of the all-Ukrainian status of a public association. A copy of the original (a notarised copy thereof) decision by an authorised managerial body of a legal entity to terminate the symbols. State registration and other registration actions shall be carried out on the grounds of court judgements. The application for state registration in Ukraine can be submitted in paper or electronic form. Documents can be checked for grounds to suspend the examination of documents and refuse state registration. An abstract from the United State Register in paper form shall be provided with the signature and seal of a state registrar. A state registration entity shall issue (send by mail with an enclosure list) an abstract from the United State Register. A simplified procedure for state registration of the dissolution of a legal entity through its winding-up shall be carried out on the grounds of a court judgement to cancel (declare invalid) the state registration. The procedure for conducting the simplified procedure for state registration of the dissolution of a legal entity due to its winding-up shall include: 1) carrying out the registration action by means of making an entry in the United State Register – not later than the next business day from the date of the ground provided for in part 4 of this Article; 2) the state registration  on no arrears on payment of taxes and fees; on no uncanceled issues of securities of the legal entity - issuer; and on no uncanceled registration of the issue of shares of a joint-stock company. The procedure for state registration, preparation and execution of decisions on registration of public organisations, symbols and other registration actions shall be determined by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Article 26. Period for examination of documents submitted for state register. If during the examination of an application a state registrar finds out other packages of documents registered in the United State Register regarding the same entity, the next package of documents shall be examined after the state registration. The period for examining the documents as established in clauses 2, 6 and 7, part 1 of this Article may be extended by a state registration entity, if necessary, but not more than 15 business days. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall establish the grounds, procedure and amount of the state registration within shortened terms. The grounds to suspend the examination of the documents submitted for state registration shall be: submission of incomplete documents or information defined by this Law. Examination of documents shall be suspended within 24 hours, except for weekends and public holidays, after receipt of the documents submitted for state registration. Suspension of examining the documents on the grounds not stipulated by this Article shall not be allowed. 7) submission of documents in violation of the period established by law for their submission. 3-2) documents have been submitted to an irrelevant state registration entity. 3-1) an application for state registration of changes in the information on a legal entity contained in the United State Register due to the change in the founder’s (member) interest in the charter (authorised) capital (unit trust) is submitted regarding the founder. Changes in the constituent documents of a legal entity shall constitute the grounds for registration actions concerning a legal entities. There is no entry in the United State Register on the state registration of the legal entity established through reorganisation due to merger, consolidation or split-up. No information has been received on any arrears on payment of taxes and fees, except for banks in respect of which the winding-up procedure is carried out in accordance with the Law of Ukraine. The grounds for refusal of state registration of an individual entrepreneur: 1) documents have been submitted by a person not authorised thereto; 2) the United State Register contains information on a court judgement to prohibit a registration action; 3) the grounds to suspend the examination of documents have not been eliminated within the prescribed period. The refusal of the state registration shall be carried out within 24 hours after receipt of the documents. The documents submitted for state registration (except for the document on payment of the administrative fee) shall be returned (issued, sent by mail) to the applicant not later than the next business day from the day of receipt of the applicant’s application for their return. After elimination of the reasons that constituted the grounds for the refusal of state registration, the applicant may re-submit the documents. A registration file in paper form shall be stored for five years from the date of making an entry in the United State Register on state registration of dissolution of a legal entity. Upon expiry of this period the registration files, not included in the National Archive Fund following their valuation, shall be destroyed in accordance with the procedure established by the legislation. Withdrawal (discovery) of documents from a registration file shall not constitute grounds for refusal by a state registrar to carry out the registration actions stipulated by this Law. In case of detecting that a public association, which has confirmed its all-Ukrainian status, has fewer separate units than it is provided by part 1, Article 19 of the Law of Ukraine “On Public Associations”, a state registration entity shall provide written notification to the public association. A mistake in the information of the United State Register made not through the fault of the state registration entity shall be rectified for a fee, the amount of which is established by this Law. Mistakes made in the Information of the U.S. Register due to mistakes in that documents, which were the grounds for entering such information, shall be. rectified after the rectification of mistakes in the mentioned documents. Decisions, actions or omissions of a state registrar, a state registration entity may be appealed to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and its territorial authorities or in court. The date of filing the complaint shall be the date of its actual receipt by the ministry or its territorial authority. The total period of examination and resolution of the complaint may not exceed 45 calendar days. A complaint against decision, action or omission of a state registrar, a state registration entity or territorial authority of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine shall be filed in writing by a person who believes that their rights have been violated. The complaint shall be accompanied by duly certified copies of documents confirming the violation of the complainant’s rights (if any) The decisions provided for in subclauses “a”, “e” and “g’, clause 2 of this part shall be adopted solely by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The decision adopted following the examination of a complaint shall be sent to the complainant within three business days from the date of its adoption. No repeated submission of documents for state registration and payment of the administrative fee shall be required. The decisions provided for in subclauses “g” and “h”, clause 2, part 6 of this Article shall be executed by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, its territorial authorities without delay, but no later than five business days from the date of their adoption. In case a decision on temporary blocking or cancelling notary’s access to the United State Register, cancelling the accreditation of a state registration entity has been adopted, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine shall resolve on transferring the documents submitted for registration actions. Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to exercise control in the field of state registration. Decisions, actions or omissions of the Ministry of Justice and its territorial authorities may be appealed in court. Follows monitoring of the registration actions in the United State Register in case of violations of the procedure for state registration by state registrars. The decisions provided for in clauses 3–5, part 2 of this Article shall be executed by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine within five business days from the date of their adoption. Monitoring may not cover the same state registrar and/or state registration entity more than once a year, except for audits (monitoring) upon applications of individuals or legal entities. The administrative fee shall be charged for state registration in the amount of 140 subsistence minimums for able-bodied persons. The fee will be increased if certain persons have to be sent an abstract from the United State Register. There will be no fee for registration of changes in the information on trade unions, their organisations or associations. The administrative fee for state registration of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs shall be credited to the budget in the manner prescribed by the Budget Code of Ukraine. An administrative fee of 30 per cent of the administrative fee set out in part one of this Article shall be charged for the rectification of a technical error. Financial support of state registrars (except for private notaries) shall be at the expense of state and local budgets. Private notaries will receive 60 per cent of the administrative fee for state registration. Funding for keeping and operation of the United State Register shall be provided at expense of the State Budget of Ukraine.