This Law shall define the basic legal, economic and organisational principles of the oil and gas industry of Ukraine. It will regulate relations related to the peculiarities of oil-and-gas bearing subsoil use, production, transportation, storage and use of oil, gas and refined products. Pilot oil production of the underground storage facility shall mean carrying out a set of works, including experimental gas injection and sampling, on the object selected for the creation of storage. Pilot development planning of oil and gas field shall mean the stage of geological study of the field.  oil and gas subsoil shall mean a located below the land surface and the bottom of reservoirs part of the earth's crust, which contains oil, gas and related components. Oil and gas production facilities shall mean facilities intended for geological exploration, including pilot development and production of hydrocarbons. Oil and gas field development shall mean the technological process of extracting oil, gas and associated components from a field. Special permit for the use of oil and gas subsoil shall mean a document issued by the central government body, implementing public policy in the field of geological study and rational use ofSubsoil. Article 4-1. Features of regulation of relations in the oil and gas industry of enterprises. Companies, 50 per cent or more of shares (stakes, units) of which are in the authorised capital of other companies, a shareholder of which is the state and owns a controlling interest. Opening price (excluding value-added tax and costs of transportation, supply and conservation) at stock auctions for oil and natural-gas condensate. The transfer of crude oil and natural-gas condensate to buyers shall be carried out at the fields or metering units of business entities, defined in part one of this Article. The method of shipment and direction of transportation shall be determined by the buyer in the relevant purchase and sale agreements. If the price at which oil and gas are sold at stock auctions is lower than the opening price, business entities shall pay a fine to the state budget. This article shall apply exclusively to those participants of joint operation agreements. Public policy in the oil and gas industry shall be based on the principles of: public management in theOil and Gas industry. State regulation of activities in the Oil and Gas Industry. Maintaining the integrity and ensuring the reliability and efficiency of the Unified Gas Transmission System of Ukraine. The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall determine major public policy in the oil and gas industry and carry out legislative regulation of relations in it. The main tasks of state regulation are: promoting competition, ensuring the pricing and tariff policy and protection of the rights of all subjects of relations. Right of ownership of natural oil and gas resources located within the territory of Ukraine, its territorial waters and the Exclusive (marine) Economic Zone belongs to the Ukrainian people. Local self-government authorities shall not have the right to interfere in the economic activities of entities engaged in the geological study and rational use of subsoil. Issuance of special permits for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil shall be carried out in accordance with the principles of openness of the tender system. The following types of special permit shall be issued: for geological study and development of fields; for oil andGas production (commercial field development); for the construction and operation of underground facilities. The suitability of mineralised groundwater for domestic and commercial use shall be established by the central government body. The owner of a special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil shall not grant, sell or otherwise alienate the rights granted to him/her. A special permit for the use of oil and gas subsoil shall be issued for the following period. The validity of a special permit shall begin from the date of receipt of the special permit. The user of the permit is obliged to start work on a certain site no later than 180 calendar days from the day of entry into force. Land plots of all forms of ownership and categories shall be granted to owners of special permits for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil for construction, placement and operation. Landowners and land users shall be compensated for damages and losses caused by the use. of land for the needs of the oil andGas industry. The owner of a special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil is obliged to: ensure the completeness of geological study, rational integrated use and protection ofOil and gas Potential Subsoil. Issuance of special permits for the creation and use of underground storage tanks shall be carried out in the manner prescribed by this Law. In the areas of oil and gas potential subsoil located within the territorial sea and the Exclusive (marine) Economic Zone of Ukraine and for the use of which a special permit has been obtained, the works shall be carried out in accordance with a special regime. If it is impossible to place appropriate technological facilities within the offshore area, these facilities shall be located in the off-shore area. The location of any technological facilities during the entire period of validity of the special permit shall be approved by central government bodies. A special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil shall not be granted if: the requirements of this Law and the conditions of the tender are not met. Disputes arising in case of refusal to issue a special permit shall be resolved in court. Special permits for the Use of Oil and Gas Potential Subsoil issued in violation of the established procedure for their receipt shall be declared invalid. A special permit can be temporarily suspended exclusively as a result of measures of state geological control. Suspension of a special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil shall not interrupt the validity of this permit. The validity of the special permit will be renewed after the user eliminates the reasons for its suspension and pays all financial sanctions imposed in connection with its suspension. Revocation of aSpecial Permission for Use of Oil and Gas Potential Subsoil. The decision to revoke a special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil can be appealed in court. The agreement on the conditions of use ofOil and Gas Potential Subsoil shall be an integral part of the special permit. It regulates and specifies the technical, technological, organisational, financial, economic, social, environmental aspects of the use. Proposals, obligations and warranties of the bidder, by virtue of which he/she was recognised as the winner of the tender, are obligatory and are specified in the agreement on conditions of use of oil and gas potential subsoil. State control and supervision over compliance with the rules and regulations for the use ofOil and Gas Potential Subsoil shall be exercised by central government bodies and local self-government authorities. Article 30. Conduction of geological exploration works at plots, where oil and gas production is carried out. Article 31. State registration and accounting of Geological exploration works. Article 32. Reporting on the geological study of oil andGas potential subsoil. The report on geological and economic assessment of reserves shall be submitted to the State Geological Information Fund of Ukraine. The State Geological Information Fund of Ukraine provides information on the oil and gas potential of subsoil at the request of any legal entity or individual in the manner prescribed by law. Geological information obtained (purchased) at the own expense of user of the oil or gas potential sub soil is his/her property. Oil and gas production from the field (deposit) during its pilot development planning shall not cause a significant reduction in the volume of their final production. Pilot development planning of oil and gas field or separate deposit shall be carried out after submission of the protocol of approval of the project. Owners of a special permit for the use of oil and gas potential subsoil are obliged to conclude insurance agreements in the event of: causing environmental damage due to accidents or technical problems during the development of the field. Decommissioning of oil. and gas fields from commercial development, as well as control over the impact of liquidated industrial facilities. on the environment, shall be carried out in the manner prescribed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in compliance with current legislation. Oil, gas and refined products underground storage tanks, created in natural tanks, are objects of state ownership. The order of construction and operation of oil, gas, refined products storage tanks shall be carried out by virtue of special permits issued by the central government body. Shippers, regardless of the form of ownership, shall have equal rights to use the main pipeline transport and transhipment complexes. In Ukraine, there is a unified centralised dispatch system for operational and technological management of production, transmission and supply of natural gas. Centralised dispatch (operational and technological) management shall apply to business entities of the oil and gas industry, whose facilities are connected to the Unified Gas Transmission System of Ukraine. Business entities, regardless of the form of ownership, using oil and gas potential subsoil, must comply with the requirements of environmental legislation. Projects for conduction of geological exploration works on lands used for nature protection, recreational and historical and cultural purposes shall be subject to mandatory environmental impact assessment. Oil and gas enterprises are obliged to staff jobs with qualified personnel, to provide them with safe labour conditions. Employees who provide production processes in the oil and gas industry shall be required to undergo special training and testing of knowledge (certification) The list of jobs and positions of employees who shall undergo special. training and certification shall be approved by the central government body, ensuring the formation and implementation of public policy in the field of industrial safety. This Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication. Main pipeline transport facilities and transhipment complexes of oil, gas and refined products can be in communal or private ownership. Subjects of the oil and gas industry shall participate in international scientific and technical, foreign economic and other forms of international co-operation in accordance with the legislation and international treaties of Ukraine. L. KUCHMA - President of Ukraine. City of Kyiv. 12 July 2001. No. 2665-III. L.K. Kuchma: President of the Ukraine. city ofKyiv. 6 July 2001: President. of the Kyiv City Council. 6 June 2001: Mayor. President.