This Law defines the general principles of charity work in Ukraine. It provides legal regulation of relations in society aimed at the development of charity. The Law provides favourable conditions for the creation and operation of charitable organisations. It also provides for the establishment of humanism and charity, and for charity telecommunication messages. Legislation of Ukraine on charity work and charitable organisations is based on the Constitution of Ukraine. Goals and Fields of Charity Work are: education, healthcare, ecology, environmental protection and animal protection. Charitable organisations shall not have the right to provide charitable assistance to political parties or on behalf of political parties. Philanthropists may jointly or individually perform charity work on the basis of voluntary choice of one or more of the following types. Reimbursement by charitable organisations of expenses of other beneficiaries related to the transfer of property and proprietary rights, specified in part 1 of this Article, shall be recognised as charity work. The laws of Ukraine may determine additional types of charity work and specifics of regulation. A charitable donation may be provided to beneficiaries determined on a competitive basis by the philanthropist or his/her authorised persons. The terms of the competition may specify the actions that the beneficiary must perform for the benefit of third parties. Philanthropists or their successors shall have the right to change the beneficiaries of a charitable donation in accordance with the procedure established by this Law. Public fundraising for purposes that contradict the laws of Ukraine or violate the rights of third parties shall be prohibited. Provisions on public fundraising shall apply to the public sale of the property on behalf of or for the benefit of charitable organisations. Public fundraising for the purpose of ensuring operational, mobilisation readiness, military capacity, and functioning of the Armed Forces of Ukraine shall be performed. A non-profit organisation, as well as a charitable organisation (except for political parties and credit unions), or a territorial community shall use the funds raised through public fundraising with the use of a charitable telecommunication message. The use of such funds for financing administrative and other expenses of a non-profits or territorial communities, which is not provided for in the agreement, shall be prohibited. Information and reports on the use of funds raised through the public fundraising via charitable telecommunication message shall be subject to mandatory publication on the website of such organisation or territorial community. Philanthropists shall have the right to establish land easements or another real estate in favour of charitable organisations or other beneficiaries, provided they are used for the purposes of charity work. Founders of charitable organisations may be legally capable individuals and legal entities. Charitable organisations shall independently determine the spheres, types, place (territory), terms and beneficiaries of charity work in statutory documents, charity programmes or other decisions of governing bodies. The founder or founders of a charity institution shall not participate in the management of the charity institution. A charity foundation can be created by one or more founders. The statutory document of a charity society and a charity foundation shall be the charter. The statutory documents of a charitable organisation may determine the work specifics and termination of such organisation. Charitable organisations shall have the right of ownership and other property rights to funds, securities, land plots and other real estate. Charitable organisations shall have the right to perform economic activities without the purpose of making a profit, which contributes to their statutory goals. Expenses related to the management of charitable endowments shall be included in administrative expenses of the charitable organisation unless otherwise provided by law. The reporting of charitable organisations may contain information on the identity of philanthropists or beneficiaries. The supreme governing body of charity societies and charity foundations is the general meeting of participants. The governing bodies of charity institutions are the executive authority and the supervisory board. Supervisory board may not be established in charity societies or charity foundations with less than ten members. In the absence of thesupervisory board, its powers shall be exercised by general meeting. The supervisory board is a governing body of charity societies and charity foundations. It controls and regulates the activities of the executive authority, within its competence defined by their charters. The Supervisory Board of a charity society and charity foundation shall have the right to suspend the powers of any member of theexecutive authority. Accreditation of representative offices, branches of a foreign charitable organisation in Ukraine shall be conducted in accordance with the procedure for accreditation of a separate subdivision of such an organisation. The Register of Volunteers of the anti-terrorist operation and/or implementing measures to ensure national security and defence, repulse and suppression of armed aggression of the Russian Federation in Donetsk and Luhansk regions. An individual shall submit an application, a copy of the document on the registration number of the taxpayer's record card or series and passport number. Inclusion in the Register is exercised on an applicant basis within one working day. Requesting other information and documents not provided in this paragraph shall be prohibited. The listed below legislative acts of Ukraine shall be amended as follows. In paragraph 3 the words “in the main areas defined by Article 4 of the Law of Ukraine “On Charity and Charitable Organisations” shall be replaced by “for the purposes specified in Article 3”. In Article 1: in paragraph 3 “Article 4’s” words ‘On Charity’ and “Charity organisations’ shall be deleted. in Article 10: part 1 shall be supplemented with paragraph 4, “three non-taxable minimums of personal incomes – for state registration of a charitable organisation’. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall: bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law; ensure, within the scope of its powers, the issuance of regulatory acts provided for by this Law. “ registration fee for state registration of changes to the statutory documents of charitable organisations shall not be collected”; paragraph 6, part 1 of Article 29 shall be supplemented with the words “unless otherwise provided for in this Law”