This Law determines the legal, social, economic, environmental and organisational bases for production (extraction) and use of alternative types of fuel in Ukraine. It also stimulates the increased share of their use to 20 per cent of the total fuel consumption in Ukraine until 2020. The core principles of state policy in the field of alternative types of fuel shall include: promotion of the development and rational use of non-traditional sources and types of energy raw materials. The content of bioethanol in motor petrol that is produced and/or is sold within the territory of Ukraine shall be: in 2013 – recommended content of at least 5 per cent (volume); in 2014–2015 – required content of  5% to 7% (volume) Alternative fuel is defined as a mixture of traditional fuel with alternative fuel, the content of which shall meet the technical standards of motor oil. If such fuel meets according to its characteristics the requirements for the traditional type of fuel, this Law shall apply only to its production (extraction) and shall not apply to fuel consumers. Environmental safety standards and the consequences of using of alternative fuel for the environment and human health meet the requirements established by the legislation of Ukraine for traditional types of fuel. Alternative types of gas fuel shall include: gas (methane) from coal deposits, as well as gas obtained during underground gasification and underground combustion of coal seams. Producers of alternative fuel shall be considered to be business entities of all forms of ownership that produce solid, liquid and gas fuel from non-traditional sources and types of energy raw materials. Technical equipment operating on alternative types of fuel includes equipment intended or re-equipped to operate on at least one of types of alternative fuel or on a mixture of traditional fuel with alternative one. The appointment of technical equipment for work on an alternative type of fuel shall be confirmed by the document of the enterprise-manufacturer of this equipment. Business entities that use different technologies for the production of biological types offuel shall have equal rights to access the market of biological fuel. Biofuel producers shall be obliged to keep records of biofuel and biocomponents produced by them. Bioethanol production shall be carried out by business entities, provided that an appropriate licence is available. Storage and transportation of bioethanol without its denaturation from 1–10 per cent of petrol or in case of its use for export shall be prohibited. Financing of measures to stimulate production (extraction) and consumption of alternative types of fuel shall be carried out at the expense of funds of enterprises, institutions, organisations regardless of the form of ownership, funds of the state and local budgets, other sources not prohibited by law. stimulation of enterprises-manufacturers of machines, mechanisms, devices, energy systems, other technical equipment and appliances to them. Vulgarity of the legislation on alternative types of fuel shall entail disciplinary, administrative, civil or criminal responsibility. Enterprises, institutions, organisations regardless of the form of ownership as well as citizens shall be obliged to compensate for damage caused as a result of violation. Ukraine shall participate in international co-operation in the field of production (extraction) and consumption of alternative fuel.