Land lease is a contractual fixed-term compensated ownership and use of a land plot required by the lessee to conduct entrepreneurial and other types of activities. Land lease property is land plots owned by citizens or legal entities, as well as those in municipal or state ownership. Lessees of land plots are legal entities or individuals who have the right to own and use the land plot pursuant to the lease contract. Lessees acquire the right of lease of a land plot on the grounds and in accordance with the procedure provided for by the Land Code of Ukraine. Results of auction proceeds constitute the grounds for concluding the lease contract. A land plot encumbered by a pledge may be leased out upon consent of the pledge holder. The right to lease a land Plot is subject to state registration pursuant to the law. The right of lease of a land plot of state or municipal ownership granted for the implementation of a project on the terms of Public-Private Partnership shall pass to a new private partner, and a concessionaire. A leased land plot or a part thereof may be subleased by the lessee without changing its intended purpose if this is provided for in the lease contract. If the lessor does not send a written notice of its consent or objection within one month, the leased land Plot or part of it may besubleased. The right to lease a land plot in state or municipal ownership granted for the construction of a residential unit may be alienated by the lessee with the consent of the lessor if such construction has begun, for the period and under the provisions specified in the primary lease contract. The lessee of the land plot is an investor with significant investments, with whom a special investment contract has been concluded in accordance with the Law of Ukraine. Owners and lessees of land plots situated within the area of agricultural lands shall have the right for the period of the lease contract to exchange the rights of each other. Lessees shall be obliged to inform the lessor in writing about the exchange of their rights of use. The right to lease (sublease) land plots acquired by a person who owns the right to use a significant part of the area of agricultural lands shall be acquired and exercised subject to the following peculiarities. If any third person offers to conclude a lease contract for the same land plot, the person (except for the person who has a pre-emptive right to renew the lease contract in accordance with Article 33 of this Law) shall have a pre emptive right to conclude the contract. The owner or user of a land plot, the land plot of which is leased (subleased) to a person who owns the right to use a significant part of the area of agricultural land, shall have the full compensation for property damage caused to them in the result of such lease. The size of property damage shall be determined by the assessment conducted under the legislation on land valuation. In case of failure to reach consent on concluding a lease (sublease) contract, such a contract shall be deemed concluded by a court decision. This article shall apply to the acquisition and enforcement of the right to lease land plots for commercial agricultural production, farming, and personal farming. The court determines the size of property damage caused as a result of the conclusion of lease ( sublease) contracts. The lease of a land plot shall not be a reason to terminate or change restrictions (encumbrances) and other rights of third parties to this land plot. Risk of accidental destruction or damage to the leased object shall be borne by the lessor unless otherwise provided by the land lease contract. Land lease contract may provide for the lease of several land plots owned by one lessor (and concerning state and municipal lands) If the land lease contract provides for taking measures aimed at the protection and improvement of the leased object, the agreement to reimburse the lessee for the costs of such activities shall be attached. The right to lease a land plot shall arise from the moment of state registration of this right. The object under the land lease contract shall be considered to be transferred by the lessor to the lessee unless otherwise stipulated by law. A bona fide lessee of the land plot provided for the construction and maintenance of the respective property shall have the right to the first-priority conclusion of aLand lease contract for up to 50 years. A person administrating the inheritance that includes a non-leased agricultural land shall have the right to lease such land for the period provided for in this article. If the period of the land lease contract, which does not contain provisions on its renewal, expired on the day or after the day of death of the lessor, the contract shall be renewed at the request of the lessee. Lease payment for land plots of state and municipal ownership leased at land auctions may not be reduced with the consent of the parties during the period of the lease contract, as well as in case of its renewal. The lessee is authorised to require a relevant reduction of lease payment if the condition of the leased land plot has deteriorated through no fault of his own. Executive authorities and local governments concluding land lease contracts shall provide the tax authority at the location of the land plot by February 1 with lists of lessees. Land plot's lessee shall have the right to manage the land independently pursuant to provisions of land lease contract. The land plot with the water body situated within its borders shall be obliged to avoid creating obstacles in the exercise of the right of general water use. Lessee's rights to the leased land plot are subject to protection along with the protection of the right of ownership of the land plot pursuant to the law. The lessee has the right to obtain compensation for damages incurred as a result of the lessor's failure to comply with the provisions specified in the land lease contract. The lessee shall have the right to retain the benefits from the improvement of the leased land plot at its own expense if these improvements can be separated without causing damage to the land plot. The amount of losses shall be determined by the parties to the lease contract. In case the parties fail to consent on the size of damages, the dispute shall be resolved in court. The land lease contract shall be terminated if the term of the agreement has expired. Land lease contract may be dissolved with the consent of the parties. Dissolution of the land lease contract unilaterally is not allowed, unless otherwise provided by law or this contract. A person who has acquired the right of ownership of the leased land plot, within one month from the date of state registration of ownership right to it, shall be obliged to notify the lessee. Lease contract for land plot of state or municipal ownership may be dissolved in case of a decision to use the land plot for placement of objects. Executive authorities, local government authorities, as well as either party to this contract shall have the right to file the request to dissolve the lease contract. After the period of the land lease has expired, the lessee who duly complied with the obligations under the provisions of the contract shall have a pre-emptive right over other persons to enter into the contract for a new period. In case of failure to reach consent on lease payment and other essential provisions of a contract, the Lessee's pre- preemptive right to enter in to the contract will be nullified. If the lessee intends to continue using the land plot after the expiration of the land lease contract, this contract shall be considered renewed for the same period. The change of the amount of lease payment shall be executed as an additional contract (agreement) to theLand lease contract. The refusal, as well as the apparent delay in concluding the new land lease Contract, can be appealed in court. This Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication. If an international treaty ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine establishes other regulations than those stipulated by this Law, the regulations of the international treaty shall apply. The lessor shall not be responsible for the consequences associated with the shortcomings of the leased land. Land lease contracts for land plots of private ownership, as well as for land plot of state or municipal ownership where buildings and structures owned by the lessee are located. Contract may be renewed in accordance with state act on land ownership on the same terms as previously concluded. Termination of the lease contract shall be considered acceptable only in cases specified by this Law.