This law defines legal grounds for activities in the field of cinematography in Ukraine. It regulates social relations associated with the making, distributing, storing and screening of films. It applies to legal entities irrespective of their forms of ownership and individuals who are engaged in professional activities. The law is based on the Constitution of Ukraine. State film fund – the state institution of culture which carries out archival and scientific research activities. Film commission – the institution, subdivision of institution of the state or communal form of ownership. National film – the film created by cinematographic entities making of which is fully or partially carried out in Ukraine. Authorities of the aggressor state – law enforcement agencies (militia, police, etc.), armed forces, judicial authorities, internal-security troops, any special forces units. Authorities responsible for the security and protection of the state border, authorities responsible for tax and customs policymaking. Soviet state security authorities – the All-Russian Extraordinary Commission for Combating Counter-Revolution and Sabotage (AEC, EC), All-Ukrainian Extraordinary commission for Combting Counter-revolution, Speculation, Sabotages and Crimes of Prevarication (AUEC) Film participant – for the purposes of Article 15 of this Law, an individual who took part in the creation of the film, which was made and/or first made public (demonstrated) after 1991 as a performer of any role. Main principles of cinematography are: strengthening the ideas of humanity, universal human, national cultural and spiritual values. Cinematographic entities shall carry out entrepreneurial activity in the field of cinematography according to the legislation of Ukraine. Entrepreneurial activity can be carried out through the producer system. State policy in the sphere of cinemaatography shall be carried. by the central executive authorities in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy. Powers of the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of cinematography shall include: 1) summing up the practice of application of the legislation on matters falling within the scope of its competence. 2) analysing activities of cinematographic entities. 3) elaborating proposals concerning the structural improvement and reformation of the national film industry, development of the producer system. 13) controlling the observance of the quote for national films screening during the use of the national screen time. 14) drawing up protocols on administrative violations in the field of cinematography. 15) carrying out the function of state supervision (oversight) in theField of Cinematography according to the legislation. The state film studio shall be an economic organisation, the main member (shareholder) of which is the state. The main activity goal of state film studios is carrying out entrepreneurial activity in the field of cinematography. The provision of finance for the activity of the film commission shall be carried out at the expense of the local budgets and other sources not prohibited. Local governments can provide for the procedure for partial coverage of the expenses of the cinematographic entities for film-making. Compulsory conditions for privatisation of the state film studio, as well as shares (stocks of shares and/or other corporate rights) that belong to the state in any other film studio. Evaluative elements for documentaries (points): director, scriptwriter, director of photography, film editor, composer, sound designer. At least 50 per cent of the total amount of expenses for editing were spent in Ukraine. The number of points according to the evaluative element “producer” shall be defined with the consideration of the coefficient calculated as the ratio of the number of film producers with the citizenship of Ukraine. The scoring system for national films provides for scoring of at least 18 points by fiction films, 8 points by non-fiction (documentary) films, 15 points by animated (cartoon) films. The certificate of the national film possessed by the film shall presume that the film is national and this does not require re-confirmation in the relations with the state authorities. The procedure for film distribution shall be determined by the agreement concluded between the film distributor with film authors or an individual having exclusive rights to the film. The right to distribute and screen national and foreign films on all types of image carriers shall be conferred to cinematographic entities by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the sphere of cinematography. The state certificate on the right to distribute and screen films can be revoked and the state registration of the film can be cancelled. One of film participants is the individual included in the List of Persons Posing Threat to the National Security published in the prescribed manner. The decision of the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the sphere of cinematography on the refusal to issue the state certificate can be appealed in court. In Ukraine, it is prohibited to distribute and screen films containing popularisation or propaganda of the aggressor state's authorities and their separate actions. It is also prohibited to broadcast (screen by broadcasting channels) films produced by the aggresser state's individuals and legal entities. A film is considered as containing the popularisation of the aggressor state's authorities if it creates a positive image of the state's workers, officials of the Soviet state security authorities. The distribution and/or screening of films stated in part 1 of this Article shall entail the application of administrative and economic sanctions to economic agents. The decision on the imposition of fines provided for in part 6 shall be taken by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the sphere of cinematography. The state shall act as the entity of the author's property rights to the film. All films and film materials of Ukrainian making and co-production stored in the State Film Fund of Ukraine shall be the nationwide property of Ukraine, the national cultural heritage. Making of the archival set of source materials of national films and films created within the territory of Ukraine in the current year shall be financed from the State Budget of Ukraine. International activities of Ukrainian cinematographic entities shall consist in the joint making of films with other countries. Use of world achievements in science and technology in making, distributing and screening of films. Foreign legal entities and individuals can participate in the development of cinematography of Ukraine, including by investing according to the laws of Ukraine and international treaties. The Law of Ukraine “On Cinematography” shall enter into force on the date of its publication. Other laws shall be effective to the extent not contradicting this Law until brought in line with the regulations of this Law. The state certificates on the right to distribute and screen films provided for in parts 1 and 2 of Article 15-1 issued before the enactment of the Law shall be subject to annulment.