This Law establishes the procedure for tariff and non-tariff regulation of import of agricultural raw materials and products of its processing (hereinafter referred to as agricultural products) Full rates of import duty on first and second group product under the Ukrainian Classification of Goods of Foreign Economic Activity (UKT ZED) (except for excisable ones) shall be established at a double rate. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall establish the validity period of seasonal duties on agricultural products and publish its decisions 45 days before the day of their introduction. Seasonal duties shall be established for a period that cannot be less than 60 and more than 120 consecutive calendar days. During their validity period, seasonal duties shall replace import duties established by Article 6 of this Law. Quotas for livestock products cannot exceed 10 per cent of the production volume of similar products in Ukraine in the year before the current one. In the current year, quotas shall be valid until the day of the auction intended for their sale for the next year. Quotas shall be deemed to be an exception to preferential regimes, including free trade agreements, customs unions, production cooperation. The auction commission is made up of employees of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine. It is prohibited to impose additional requirements on the participants of auctions for quota sale, limit their number or refuse their auction access for other reasons. The registration fee shall be set at a level sufficient to cover the costs to organise and conduct the auction per participant. The security deposit shall not be refunded to the winning bidder who fails to pay the full value of the quota purchased. Agricultural products imported (transmitted) into the customs territory of Ukraine shall be subject to radiological, and in case of import of state control objects, to state control that is carried out by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of safety and certain indicators of foodstuff quality. It is prohibited to impose restrictions on the free movement of domestic agricultural products. This Law shall enter into force on the date of its publication. Seasonal duties provided for by Article 2 shall apply starting from the harvest of 1997. The provisions of other legislative acts of Ukraine shall be effective to the extent not contradicting this Law. Revenues of the State Budget of Ukraine received from the introduction of this Law shall be used to finance programmes on price support for domestic agricultural products.  individuals shall temporarily, until 1 July 1998, be allowed to receive international postal items of foodstuff weighing up to 5 kilograms without a certificate of compliance. For goods imported into Ukraine within the framework of investment projects at the expense of credits granted against the guarantees to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine before 7 October 1997, import duty shall be paid in accordance with the legislation.