The Law shall ensure that the citizens of Ukraine are able to participate in management of the state and public affairs. Military servicemen, employees of internal affairs and state security authorities, as well as privates and commanding staff of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine shall have the right to file appeals not related to their official activities. Appeal shall mean citizens’ appeals with a request to promote the exercise of their rights and interests enshrined by the Constitution. Motion shall mean a written request for recognising person’s status, rights or freedoms, etc. Complaint shall mean request to restore the rights and protect the legitimate interests of citizens violated by actions (inaction) An appeal must contain the surname, given name and patronymic, place of residence of a citizen. A written appeal must be signed by an applicant (applicants) with the indication of the date. An electronic appeal must also contain the e-mail address to which the applicant may receive a response or information on other means of communication. It shall be prohibited to persecute citizens and their family members for filing appeals. Repeated appeals to the same authority from the same citizen on the same issue shall not be considered if the first one has been resolved on the merits. No one may be forced to file a personal or to sign a collective appeal or to participate in campaigns for supporting the appeals of other persons or organisations. Document management on citizens’ appeals shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Proposals (observations) of the Heroes of the Soviet Union, Heroes of Socialist Labour, persons with disabilities as a result of war shall be considered on a first-priority basis personally. Complaints of the Heroes of the Soviet Union, Heroes of Socialist Labour, persons with disabilities as a result of war shall be considered on a first-priority basis. Complaints against resolutions of the general meeting of members of collective agricultural enterprises, joint-stock companies, legal entities established based on collective ownership, as well as decisions of higher government authorities shall be resolved in court. Government authorities and local governments, enterprises, institutions, organisations irrespective of the form of ownership, citizens’ associations, media, their heads and other officials must verify the applications or complaints in an impartial, fully-fledged and timely manner. Article 19. Obligations of government authorities, local governments and enterprises. Appeals must be considered and resolved within no more than one month after receiving them. Appeals of citizens who enjoy the benefits determined by law shall be considered on a first-priority basis. Free-of-charge consideration of appeals. Heads and other officials of government authorities, local governments, enterprises, institutions, organisations irrespective of the form of ownership, must hold a personal reception of citizens. All citizens’ appeals at a personal reception shall be registered. Should it be impossible to resolve issues raised in an oral appeal directly at the personal reception, it shall be considered in accordance with the same procedure as the written appeal. The results of consideration shall be communicated to a citizen in writing or orally, at the choice of a citizen. An electronic petition, which failed to obtain the required number of votes in support of it within the set period, shall be considered as an appeal of citizens under this Law after the deadline for gathering signatures in support thereof expires. An electronic petition addressed to the President of Ukraine, the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be considered in accordance with the procedure determined by this Article. The electronic petition shall be considered immediately, but no later than within ten business days after the date of publication of the information about the commencement of its consideration. If the electronic petition contains a request for consideration thereof at the parliamentary hearings in the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine or public hearings of a relevant territorial community, an author (initiator) of the petition shall have the right to present it at such hearings. The support or non-support of an electronic petition will be publicly announced on the official website of the President. Proposals set forth in an electronic petition may be implemented by an authority to which it is addressed by taking a decision on issues within its competence. Information about the number of signatures obtained in support of the electronic petition and deadlines for gathering them shall be kept for at least three years after the date of publication. Control over the compliance with the legislation on citizens’ appeals shall be carried out by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, Members of Parliament of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights is the Ukrainian Parliament commissioner for human rights.