The Merchant Shipping Code of Ukraine shall regulate the relations arising in and out of merchant shipping. In this Code, the merchant shipping shall refer to activities related to the use of vessels for carrying cargo, passengers, luggage and mail, for fishing and other sea trades, exploration and extraction of minerals, for towing, ice-breaking and salvage operations. The inclusion of provisions for applying the foreign legislation and merchant shipping practice into the contracts provided for by this Code shall be allowed in those cases when the parties may, in compliance with this Code, depart from its rules. International treaties of Ukraine on merchant shipping shall be applied in Ukraine under the procedure provided for in the Law of Ukraine “On International Agreements of Ukraine” Allocation of land and water areas for merchant shipping, for the implementation of construction projects or any work within the coverage of navigational equipment and the sea routes, shall be performed under the procedure established by the Land and Water Codes of Ukraine. Proposals on demolition, relocation or necessity of alteration of buildings and structures hindering navigation or operation of aids to navigation shall be submitted by the central executive authority. The rules of this Code shall apply to the transportation in direct intermodal and direct water traffic performed involving the maritime transport. The limits of liability of a shipowner and an operator of a nuclear vessel flying the flag of a foreign state shall be regulated by the law of the flag state. Relations under the contracts for carriage by sea, time chartering, bareboat chartering and leasing shall be governed by the legislation of the state upon agreement of the parties. The parties’ relations shall be governed by the legislation of the state where the following party is established. The parties shall have the right to deviate in the contract from the rules of this Code relating to the relevant contract, unless those rules stipulate otherwise. In this Code, a nuclear vessel shall mean a vessel that is equipped with a nuclear power plant. The right of ownership and other proprietary rights for vessels outside Ukraine, as well as the accrual, change and termination of these rights, shall be governed by the legislation of the flag state. Any vessel which has communication equipment shall be assigned a call sign and, depending on its technology intensiveness, an identification number of the shipboard satellite communication station. A vessel may be allowed to sail only after it has been determined that it meets the requirements for the safety of navigation, protection of human life and the natural environment. Vessels shall be supervised by a classification society on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine concerning compliance with the requirements of international treaties of Ukraine. A vessel built in Ukraine shall be subject to registration under the procedure determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A fee shall be charged for the registration of a vessel in the State Vessel Register of Ukraine or the Vessel Book of Ukraine and for any subsequent changes to the records on the vessel’s registration. The term “Ukrainian vessel” or “vessel of Ukraine” shall mean the nationality of the vessel under the jurisdiction of Ukraine. The right to fly the State Flag of Ukraine shall be granted to a vessel owned by the state or owned by an individual Ukrainian citizen. The proprietor of a vessel or bareboat charterer shall notify the vessel registration authority of any changes. Vessels must have certificate of right to fly the State Flag of Ukraine (certificate of navigation), certificate of title to the vessel, tonnage certificate and minimum safe manning certificate. List of the vessel’s crew (muster roll); list of the passengers that are on board; vessel's log; engine log (for mechanically propelled vessels) Vessels registered with the Vessel Book of Ukraine shall carry a ship’s letter instead of the documents referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3, part 1 of this Article. A vessel sailing abroad shall also have the documents stipulated in the international treaties of Ukraine. Certain categories of vessels may not have a tonnage certificate or a load line certificate. The papers referred to in Article 35 of the Code shall be kept on board in their originals, except for the certificate of title to the vessel and the ship’s letter, which may be in a notarised copy. A vessel that flies the flag of a foreign state when calling at the ports of Ukraine shall be subject to compulsory inspection with the determination of tonnage, passenger capacity and inspection of its radio station. Damage caused by loss or damage to property in connection with the operation of a vessel. Injury as a result of deprivation of life or injury to health on land or on water. Compensation and other amounts due for elimination or attempted elimination of the threat to harm, for taking precautionary measures or carrying out similar operations. The arrested vessel shall be released if a maritime claim is secured in an acceptable form and sufficient amount. The court, commercial court or Maritime Arbitration Commission shall determine the form and amount of the security, which shall not exceed the value of the vessel. Any request to release a vessel from arrest in connection with the security for a maritime claims shall not constitute an admission of liability, a waiver of remedies or a right to limit liability. The rules of this article shall not apply to the unlawful release of a vessel from arrest. The legal status of the vessel’s crew that flies the flag of Ukraine, as well as the relations between the crew members who are engaged in the operation of that vessel, shall be determined by the valid legislation of Ukraine. The vessel’s crew shall consist of the master, other officers and the ship's company. The minimum safe manning, which allows putting a vessel to sea, shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of transport. Only a citizen of Ukraine may be the master of a vessel. The procedure for hiring vessel’s crew, their rights and duties, conditions of work on the vessel and payment for labour, social amenities at sea and in port, as well as the procedure and grounds for dismissal, shall be regulated by the legislation of Ukraine. The seagoing vessel service regulations shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of transport. The minimum standards provided by the proprietors of merchant vessels shall not be lower than those set by the international treaties whereto Ukraine is a party. The master of a vessel shal be responsible for managing the vessel, including navigation, taking all measures necessary to ensure the safety of navigation, prevent pollution, maintain order on the vessel and prevent any damage to the vessel. The master of each vessel that has collided shall render assistance to the other vessel, its passengers and crew after the collision. The shipowner shall not be liable in any way for the failure of the master of a vessel to comply with their obligation to assist. If a person on board a vessel needs emergency medical care which cannot be provided at sea, the master shall be obliged to call at the nearest port. The master of a vessel shall have the right to apply incentives and impose disciplinary penalties on the vessel’s crew members up to and including suspension from duty. If the actions of a person on board a vessel do not constitute a criminal offence but threaten the safety of the vessel or the persons and property on it, the master may confine that person in a separate compartment. If an action provided for by the law of Ukraine on criminal liability has been committed while the vessel is in port, the Master of the Vessel shall hand over the person suspected of having committed the action to the relevant law enforcement agencies. The master of a vessel shall have the right to choose that method of acquiring money to continue the voyage which is the least detrimental to the shipowner and the cargo owner. If there is an urgent need for money, the master of the vessel may sell part of the property entrusted to them which is not necessary for the continuation of the voyage. The relationship between the master of a vessel and other vessel’s crew members and the consuls of Ukraine shall be governed by the Ukrainian Consular Regulations. The list of Ukrainian seaports open for call by foreign vessels shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and published in the Notices to Mariners of Ukraine. State supervision over the safety of navigation in a seaport, its approaches and adjacent water areas shall be carried out by the harbour master. Navigational and hydrographic support for navigation in inland waters, territorial sea and exclusive maritime economic zone of Ukraine shall be provided. The orders of the seaport harbour master shall be binding for all vessels, legal entities and individuals that are within the water area and territory of that seeport. The order of the harbour master may be revoked by the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state policy in the field of maritime and river transport safety. An order of a seaport harbour master to detain a vessel or cargo following the maritime claims specified in Article 80 of this Code shall be valid for three days. Vessels owned by a foreign state shall not be subject to detention upon a property claim if they are used solely for public service, except in the cases provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure. The rules for control of vessels to ensure the safety of navigation shall be established by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of transport. The seaport harbour master shall refuse to issue a permit to leave the port if: a) a vessel is unseaworthy, the loading, supplying, manning requirements are violated and there are other deficiencies.  Maritime pilots shall be citizens of Ukraine, who meet the requirements set out in the Regulations on Maritime Pilots approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of transport. In areas of compulsory pilotage, a vessel shall not navigate without a maritime pilot, unless the vessel belongs to a category of vessels that are exempt. The presence of a maritime pilot on a vessel shall not relieve the master of their responsibility for steering the vessel. The enterprise employing a pilot shall be liable for accidents at sea caused by the maritime pilots during the performance of their duties. The emergency pilotage fund is formed out of 10 per cent of deductions from the pilotage fees received in the calendar year preceding the accident. The master of a vessel shall pay a fine in the amount of twice the pilotage fee, regardless of the liability established by the valid legislation of Ukraine. The maritime pilot shall not, without the consent of the master, leave the vessel before they have anchored it, docked it in a safe place, put it at sea or been replaced with another pilot. If a maritime pilot is delayed on a vessel for more than two hours due to the necessity of loading or unloading the vessel, malfunction of the vessel’s machinery, stay in quarantine and other circumstances, if not caused by force majeure, the master shall pay to the enterprise employing the maritime pilot a separate remuneration in the amount established in accordance with Article 106 of this Code. If a pilot and a trainee are taken out of the area they serve by the vessel they were piloting the master of the ship shall reimburse the pilot and the trainee for the costs of return to the place of duty. The vessel traffic control service shall operate under the Model Regulation on the Vessel Traffic Control Service. Pilot operators of the vessel trafficcontrol service may be citizens of Ukraine. Liability for accidents caused by the pilot operator of the service shall be borne by the relevant organisation in charge. The master of a vessel who has requested and then refused services of the vessel traffic control service shall be obliged to pay in full the fee due for the services requested. In the performance of a maritime agency contract, the maritime agent acting on behalf of the shipowner may also act for the benefit of the other contracting party. The rules of this Chapter apply to the recovery, removal or destruction of property that has sunk within the internal waters or territorial sea of Ukraine. Vessels that have sunk at sea and the cargo and stuff on them shall be subject to the legislation of the flag state of that vessel. If a maritime agency contract is concluded for an indefinite period, either party shall be entitled to terminate the contract. Sunken property hinders the navigation, marine fisheries, hydraulic engineering or other works, poses a threat to human life or health or danger of natural environment pollution. The owner of the sunken property shall lose the title to it if they fail to make a declaration or raise the property within the time periods provided for in Articles 122, 123 of this Code. The seaport administration shall be reimbursed for the cost of raising and other costs and losses incurred in connection therewith. The owner of the raised property shall be refunded the proceeds from the sale after deduction of all expenses incurred. The carrier and the cargo owner may conclude long-term contracts for organising carriage by sea if there is a need. A maritime common carrier shall not be entitled to enter into contracts with cargo owners to waive or reduce the liability which, under the rules of this section, that carrier is required to bear for loss, shortage and damage or delay in the delivery of the cargo. Acceptance of cargo for carriage in certain directions may be prohibited only in exceptional cases. The charterer and the carrier shall be recognised as persons who have entered into a contract of affreightment (charter) between themselves. The contract for carriage of cargo by sea shall be made in writing. The legal relations between the carrier and the consignee of the cargo shall be determined by the bill of lading. The carrier may issue a document other than the bill of lading to prove receipt of the cargo for carriage. Such a document shall be prima facie evidence of concluding the contract for carriage by sea. The consignor shall be liable to the carrier for all consequences resulting from incorrect or incomplete information. The data referred to in clause 7 of this Article shall not be verified by the carrier and shall be included in the bill of lading on the basis of a written statement from the consignor. When cargo is carried in overseas traffic, other conditions and reservations may also be stated. Once the cargo has been delivered under one of the copies, the other copies shall become invalid. Each piece of cargo shall bear the full and clear markings prescribed in the regulations for the carriage of cargo by sea. The carrier shall not be liable if it proves that the unseaworthiness of the vessel was caused by defects that could not have been detected when exercising due diligence (hidden defects) Cargo may be carried in a lighter, vessel’s compartment or container sealed by the consignor. The time within which the cargo shall be loaded on or unloaded from the vessel (laytime) shall be determined by agreement between the parties or by the standards adopted at the port of loading (unloading) When not all the vessel is available for the carriage of cargo, the master may refuse to accept the cargo. In doing so, the carrier shall retain the right to receive full freight. If the third-party cargo has not been removed from the vessel in good time, the consignor shall be entitled to claim an appropriate reduction in the freight as well as compensation for the resulting loss. The carrier shall, at the request of the consignor, set the vessel adrift, even if not all the cargo has been loaded. The carrier shall then retain the right to full freight. Repudiation of the contract by the parties before the departure of the vessel. The master may unload the cargo at one of the nearest ports at their discretion or return the cargo to the port of departure. The master may do the same if the consignor’s instruction cannot be carried out without prejudice to the owners of the other cargo on board. The carrier shall be entitled to the freight pro rata to the actual distance of cargo carriage based on the number of cargo salvaged. The carrier may not deliver the cargo until the amounts or security referred to in part 2 of this Article have been paid. The carrier shall retain the right of lien on cargo if it is delivered to a warehouse that does not belong to the consignee provided that the warehouse owner is notified of such a right. The carrier shall have the right to sell the cargo, which is subject to the lien, in the manner prescribed by law. If the amount raised from the sale of the cargo is insufficient to meet the requirements referred to part 1, Article 163 of this Code, the carrier shall be entitled to claim from the consignor or the charterer the amount which is lack. Unloading and delivery to the warehouse shall be carried out by the master only after the end of the unloading periods and demurrage time. If the cargo deposited for storage is not claimed within two months from the date of vessel arrival at the port, the carrier shall be entitled to sell the cargo. Cargoes that are stored in ports for longer than the prescribed periods shall be sold with compensation for storage costs. The proceeds from the sale of undocumented cargo shall be credited to the carrier’s revenue to cover losses caused by the satisfaction of claims related to loss or shortage of cargo. The carrier may not deliver the cargo until the amounts or security referred to in part 3 of this Article have been paid. If the consignor repudiates the contract for carriage of cargo by sea before the vessel has left for the voyage, the carrier shall deliver the cargo. If the cargo is lost, short or damaged for reasons for which the carrier is not liable, the freight shall be paid in full. In the cases provided for in Articles 154, 157, 158, 159 of this Code the freight Shall be paid pro rata to the distance travelled. The carrier shall be liable for loss, shortage of and damage to the cargo accepted for carriage. The carrier’s liability under this Article shall begin when the cargo is accepted and terminate when it is delivered. Agreements which are not in conformity with the provisions of this Articleshall be null and void. The carrier shall not be liable for loss, shortage of or damage to the cargo if it proves that they resulted from the actions or omissions of the master, other persons of the vessel’s crew and the pilot in steering or operating the vessel. The carrier shall also refund the freight received by it if it is not included in the price of the lost or short cargo. If the value of the cargo has not been stated and included in the bill of lading, the compensation for the damaged piece or unit of the short cargo, may not exceed 666.67 units of account. An agreement to reduce the said amounts shall be null and void. The carrier shall not be entitled to the limitation of liability provided for in part 1 of this Article if it is proved that the loss, shortage or damage resulted from an action or omission of the carrier. The carrier shall undertake to carry the passenger and their cabin luggage to their destination and, if the passenger checks in the luggage, also to deliver the luggage to the destination and hand it over to the person authorised to receive it. The carriage of other luggage that is not cabin luggage shall cover the time from the moment it is received by the carrier, servant or agent. Any provision in a contract concluded before the occurrence of an event which caused the death of a passenger or injury to health or loss of or damage to luggage shall be null and void. The passenger has the right to repudiate the contract for carriage by sea at any time before the departure of the vessel and after the commencement of the voyage. The carrier has the right to repudiate the contract for carriage of a passenger by sea in the circumstances referred to in clauses 1–4, Article 156 of this Code. The carrier shall be entitled to delay the departure of the vessel, to change the route of carriage, the place of embarkation or disembarkation of the passenger. Passenger under the contract for carriage by sea shall be subject to compulsory accident insurance under the legislation of Ukraine. The carrier shall be liable for harm caused by the passenger’s death or damage to their health. Luggage not claimed within three months of the vessel arrival at the port of destination may be sold. The carrier’s liability for loss of or damage to cabin luggage shall in no event exceed 1800 units of account per passenger in respect of the carriage as a whole. The carrier and the passenger may, by express written agreement, set higher limits of liability than those provided for in parts 1–4 of this Article. The cruise participant has the right to repudiate the cruise contract at any time before the commencement of the cruise. The cruise organiser shall be liable for damage caused by death or injury to a cruise participant, as well as loss of or damage to their belongings. Under a time charter, the shipowner undertakes to provide the charterer with a vessel for a specified period of time. The vessel provided to the charterer may be crewed (time charter) or not equipped (bareboat charter) The existence and content of a time charter may only be proved by written proofs. The charterer shall operate the vessel under the terms and conditions of the charter, as defined in the time charter. The charterer is liable for losses caused by salvage, damage or loss of the vessel if the losses are due to their fault. The charterer shall be exempted from paying the freight and the costs of the. vessel for the time during which the vessel was unserviceable due to the unseaworthiness. The lessor shall be liable for defects in the vessel which existed at the time of its delivery to the lessee. The lessee shall be obliged to maintain the vessel and bear the costs related to its maintenance and repair. The lessor has the right to repudiate the vessel lease contract and demand the return of the vessel if theLessee fails to pay the lease fee. The lessee is obliged to return the vessel to the lessor in the condition in which they received it, taking into account normal wear and tear. Improvements made by the lessee to the vessel, if they can be separated, may be withdrawn by theLessee if theLessor does not agree to reimburse their value. The proprietor of the towing vessel shall not be liable for damage caused to the. vessel being towed or another floating object or property and the cargo on it when towing in ice conditions. Towboat owner shall manoeuvre the towed vessel, perform mooring and other operations in the seaport waters. Harbour master may establish mandatory use of towboats for harbouring, unharbouring and moving in port waters. Port towing shall be managed by the master of the vessel (object) being towed. Towing between the ports of Ukraine may only be carried out by the vessels flying the flag of Ukraine. Inter-port towage shall be managed by the master of the towing vessel. The master of such a vessel may not interfere with the intra-ship life of the vessel (object) being towed. Under the marine insurance contract, the insurer undertakes to indemnify the policyholder or other person in whose favour the contract is concluded against loss for a specified fee (insurance premium) The existence and contents of a marine insurance. contract may only be ascertained by written proofs. The insurer shall issue a document containing the terms and conditions of the marine insurance contract (policy, certificate of insurance, etc.), signed by the policyholder. The policyholder shall be obliged to pay the insurance premium to the insurer within an agreed period of time. The insurer shall have the right to request that the policy or other insurance document issued by the insurer be submitted. If interest is insured with several insurers for amounts collectively in excess of its insured value, all insurers shall only be liable up to the insured value. All cargoes that the policyholder receives or sends during a certain period of time may be insured under a separate agreement. The policyholder must provide the insurer with all necessary information immediately upon receipt. If the policyholder deliberately fails to provide the information in a timely manner or at all or deliberately misdeclares the cargo or the insured amount, the insurer shall have the right to refuse the insurance under the general policy. The insurer shall not be liable for damage caused by the intent or gross negligence of the policyholders, consignor or their representatives. The insurer shall not be liable for loss arising from any war or military action and its consequences, seizure, piracy, civil commotion, lockouts, strikes, or the confiscation, requisition, arrest or destruction of a vessel or cargo at the request of military or civil authorities. The policyholder shall be obliged to protect the insurer’s interests when drawing up a general average statement. The insurer shall be liable for losses caused by several insured events that occur one after the other, even if the total amount of such losses exceeds the insured amount. A missing vessel shall be deemed missing when no news of it has been received within three months or, if the receipt of news may have been delayed as a result of military action, within six months. A notice of abandonment must be made to the insurer within six months of the end of the periods (occurrence of circumstances) referred to in Articles 270 and 271 of this Code. When the six-month period expires, the policyholder shall lose the right to abandonment but may claim losses on general grounds. An agreement of the parties contrary to the rules of this Article shall be null and void. The general average shall be adjusted between the vessel, the freight and the cargo pro rata to their value. Freight in this chapter also refers to charges for the carriage of passengers and their luggage. The procedure for the adjustment of the general average, if adjusted in Ukraine, shall be governed by the rules of this Code. General accident shall also include or be equated with: costs caused by the vessel being forced to enter a place of refuge or to return to the port of departure as a result of an accident. Costs which would have been made by the carrier of the cargo to receive it, but due to sacrifices have not been made, shall be excluded from the freight. Fuel, supplies and harbour costs incurred during the delay shall be reimbursed as part of the general average, except for costs incurred because of repairs not accepted for general average. The cost of temporary repairs for incidental damage necessary only to complete the voyage in question shall be recoverable only to the extent of those avoided costs which would have been attributed to general average had such repairs not been carried out. Losses recoverable by way of general average adjustment from damage to the vessel, its machinery and equipment shall be determined. Owners of cargoes the value of which at the time of delivery for the carriage was stated below their true value shall participate in the contributions relating to the general average. The amount of costs and other amounts reimbursed by way of the general average adjustment shall bear interest at the rate of 7 per cent per annum. However, if any payments have been made in compensation for costs related to general average and loss before the drawing up of a general average statement, interest shall accrue on the amounts paid up to the date of payment. All materials used to draw up the general average statement shall be available for inspection. The average stater shall, at the request of the persons concerned, issue certified copies of these materials to them at their expense. The concept of a partial (non-general) average shall be recognised as a general average. Costs of moving or unloading cargo, fuel or supplies at the port of departure or call or place of refuge when damage to the vessel is found. Losses caused (in any way) during the extinguishing of a fire on board the vessel, by the effect of smoke or warming. Nothing in this chapter shall affect the liability of any person that follows from any contract, or the right of a person to limit liability under the rules of this Code. Article 298. Consequences of collision in case of no fault If the collision is accidental or due to force majeure and the collision’s causes cannot be ascertained, the person who incurred the loss shall bear it. Pollution damage shall mean damage caused outside the vessel by pollutants to the marine environment, coast, or other objects (vessels, fishing gears, etc.) It shall also include the cost of reasonable actions taken by any person after the event that may have caused or resulted in the leakage or discharge of pollutants. The proprietor of a vessel carrying in bulk more than 2,000 tonnes of oil as cargo shall insure or otherwise secure its liability for damage caused by pollution. A lawsuit for compensation for oil pollution damage may be brought directly against the insurer or another person who has provided security for the liability. Nuclear damage shall mean damage caused to a person or property by radioactive properties or a combination of radioactive properties. If another damage is caused along with the nuclear one and cannot be separated from it, the entire damage shall be deemed nuclear. Nuclear damage shall not mean damage to the nuclear vessel itself, its equipment, fuel and food supplies. A recourse claim may also be brought by a person who has assumed an obligation to compensate for nuclear damage under their contract with the operator of a nuclear vessel. In the cases provided for in this Article, a people who has compensated for the nuclear damage to the injured party in accordance with Article 323 of this Code may also make a recourse claim. The operator of the nuclear vessel shall be liable under the provision of this Article. They shall also be obliged to pay insurance contributions on behalf of the injured party. Compensation to a person receiving assistance or pension under special insurance shall be paid under the procedure provided for in the valid legislation of Ukraine. The rules of this chapter shall not apply to fixed or floating platforms, near-shore drilling rigs when such platforms or rigs are on the site of work connected with the exploration, exploitation or extraction of mineral resources from the seabed. If the salvaging vessel and the salvaged vessel fly the flag of one state, the law of that state shall apply. Remuneration shall be determined to encourage salvage operations, taking into account the following criteria (irrespective of the order in which they are set out): the salvaged value of the vessel and other property; the skill and effort of the salvor in preventing or mitigating damage to the natural environment. The maximum amount of remuneration, excluding any interest and recoverable legal or arbitration costs which may be payable in connection therewith, shall not exceed the salvages value. Salvage operations in respect of a vessel, which itself or its cargo posed a risk of environmental damage, shall be entitled to special compensation equivalent to their expenses from the proprietor of the vessel. Special compensation may be increased by a maximum of 30 per cent of the expenses incurred by the salvor. A sea protest shall be stated within twenty-four hours from the moment the vessel has registered its arrival in the port. Unloading of cargo before the statement of a sea protest may only be commenced if absolutely necessary. A notary or other officer (Article 342 of this Code) shall draw up an act of sea protest on the grounds of the master's statement. The shipowner’s liability shall be limited to the limits laid down in Article 352 of this Code in respect of claims which, irrespective of their legal basis, have arisen as a consequence of: 1) causing death or injury to a person on the vessel or loss of or damage to the property which was on the Vessel. The liability of the shipowner shall not be limited if it is proved that the damage resulted from their own action with the intention to cause such damage or from self-reliance with knowledge of the possibility. For a vessel with a tonnage exceeding 500 units, the following amount shall be added to the said amount for each unit: from 501 to 3,000 units – 500 units of account. If the amount calculated in respect of claims for loss of life or injury is insufficient to pay such claims in full, the amount will be used to pay the unpaid balance of such claims on a pro-rata basis. Claims on which the shipowner’s liability may be limited are brought directly against a person for whose acts or omissions the ship Owner is liable. If it is proved that the damage caused by that person was intentional, that person is entitled to benefit from all the provisions for limitation of liability laid down for the ship owner. Claims relating to the last voyage shall be compensated with preference over the same claims for the previous voyages. The right of priority compensation shall cease after one year from the date on which the claim arose, except for the claims referred to in clause 6 of Article 358 of this Code. The rights and obligations of the parties to a mortgage contract as well as the procedure for its execution shall be determined by the legislation of the mortgagee’s state. The mortgage contract shall be notarised at the place where the vessel is registered in the State Vessel Register of Ukraine. The mortgagor of seagoing vessels shall be obliged to keep a Mortgage Ledger. The mortgagee shall have the right to indemnify their claim in full, including interest, losses caused by default and, in the cases provided for in legislation or the mortgage contract, – a penalty. The sale of a foreclosed vessel shall be carried out in accordance with the valid legislation of Ukraine. All mortgages, other than those the liability under which has been assumed by the purchaser of the vessel or the vessel under construction by agreement of the mortgagees, and all marine liens and other obligations shall terminate. At the request of the buyer, a court, commercial court or the Maritime Arbitration Commission shall issue to the buyer a certificate confirming that the vessel is not bound by any mortgage. The mortgagee shall be obliged, upon the request of the mortgagor, to issue duly certified documents proving the full or partial fulfilment of the obligation. The right to lodge complaints and lawsuits shall be granted to: 1) in case of failure to deliver or delayed delivery of a vessel – the consignor of the cargo. The absence of a loss and damage claim shall not preclude a complaint and lawsuit. If complaints are made as a result of the carriage of cargo by sea, which was carried under sea waybill (consignment note), the consignment note shall be submitted instead of the bill of lading. In a foreign port, these circumstances shall be certified in accordance with the rules in force in that port. The rules of this Article shall not apply to claims for demurrage charges and premiums for early loading and unloading of cargo. In the case of reimbursing the claims arising out of relations provided for in this Code, interest shall be charged on the amount payable at the average rate of bank interest existent in the location of the creditor. A one-year period of limitation shall apply to claims arising out of the contract for carriage of cargo by sea, irrespective of whether the carriage is in coastal or overseas traffic. The carrier shall be obliged to examine the submitted complaint within three months and to notify the complainer of its satisfaction or rejection. Complaints arising from intermodal traffic carriage shall be examined within six months. Limitation period for claims for compensation for pollution damage from vessels and nuclear damage. Claims arising out of bareboat charter, time charter, vessel leasing, towing, pilotage, marine insurance, agreements entered into by the master by virtue of statutory rights (Articles 58, 68, 69 of the Code) – from the day the right to claim arises.  limitation periods established for claims under this Code shall continue for up to three years in the event that the vessel to which the claims relate could not be found in Ukrainian waters. If the calculation of the claim amount depends on the settlement due to a general average, the expiration of the limitation period shall be suspended from the date of the average stater’s resolution.