This law defines the general legal, organisational, social and economic foundations of activities in the field of physical culture and sports. It regulates public relations in creating conditions for the development of physical Culture and Sports. The law defines kind of sport as a type of competitive activity in sports that is carried out in compliance with certain rules. Sport is the activity of entities of the sphere of physical culture and sport, aimed for identifying and unified comparison of people's achievements. Sport has the following branches: children's sport, children's and youth sport, reserve sport, professional sport, the sport of veterans, Olympic sport, non-Olympic sport. Entities of the sphere of physical culture and sport are: individuals engaged in physical culture, including athletes. Physical culture is aimed at promoting physical activities of people in order to sustain their harmonious, primarily physical, development and at healthy lifestyle. Citizens have a right to engage in physicalculture and sport regardless of race, skin colour, political, religious and other beliefs. State policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport is based on the following principles. This right is secured by: free choice of sports, accessibility and safety of physical education and athletic activities. The use of languages during sports events is determined by the Law of Ukraine “On Supporting the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as the State Language” Central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport. defines the system of sport trophies and awards, standards of material, technical and personnel assets. Establishes the procedure for certification of sport coaches and judges. Organises and conducts Ukrainian Championships in kinds of sport recognised in Ukraine. Central executive authorities in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the sphere of healthcare, within the limits of their powers, ensure the development of sports medicine. Central executive authorities that have in its subordination the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations established in accordance with the laws of Ukraine, law enforcement agencies, rescue and other special services. The list of indexes of the level of development of physical culture and sport is approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy. The list shall have indexes of level of: physical health of different groups of population, involvement of citizens in mass sport, and involvement of people with disabilities in physical culture. Children and youth schools are financed at cost of owner (founder), from relative budget, other sources not forbidden by the legislation. Terms and conditions of employment for the employees of children and youth sport schools, founded by the state authorities and by local self-government authorities are to be developed by the central executive authority. Specialised institutions of sports education with special study programmes are secondary education institutions, institutions of professional pre-high and higher education. The sport of setting records schools can be established by: central executive authorities; local state administrations; local self-government authorities; physical culture and sports organisations. Olympic training centres provide training of athletes from national Olympic teams. Student sport centres at higher educational institutions provide conditions for a combination of education in the higher education institution and training of students for participation in European and World student championships. Physical culture and sports institutions acquire the status of a student sports centre at higher educational institution. Funding of student sport centres is performed from the funds of the owner (founder), relevant budget, other sources that are not forbidden by legislation. Physical health centres of the population are established and function according to the Provisions on physical health centre of the. population. Ukraine has regional centres of physical culture and sport of people with disabilities. Funding of such centres is provided by founders and other non-budget sources not prohibited by law. Ukraine has national sports federations of persons with disabilities and their associations, that are members of the International Paralympic Committee and an International committee of sports for the deaf. Sports federations (associations, unions, societies, etc.) are public associations of physical culture and sport orientation. A sports federation of people with disabilities is a sports federation that unites people with particular types of disabilities aimed at the development of kinds of sport. Sports federations act by virtue of charter. Sports federations can have all-Ukrainian or local status. Status of a National sport federation of people with disabilities is granted only to one sport federation separately for persons with disabilities. Sports federations with the status of the National sports federation according to the law can receive financial support from the state budget for the development of relevant kind of sport. Sports Students Union of Ukraine is a public association of physical culture and sport orientation of students. It has all-Ukrainian status according to the Law and is recognised by the International University Sports Federation. It represents Ukraine in relevant international sports organisations, at World University Games and other international sports competitions. School Sports Federation of Ukraine can receive support, including financial support from state authorities, educational institutions, institutions, enterprises, state and municipal organisations. represents Ukraine in relevant international sports organisations, at World School Games, other international sports competitions among school youth. Main functions of public associations of physical culture and sport orientation of veterans are: ensuring development of sports of veterans and assisting in social security of the veterans. Central executive authority implementing the state policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport selects all-Ukrainian public association. National Olympic Committee of Ukraine can have its branches in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblasts, cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol. It acts by virtue of charter, that is in line with the Olympic charter. The goal of the Paralympic and Deaflympic movement in Ukraine is to develop physical culture and sport among people with disabilities. State authorities assist in the development of material and technical assets of the National Olympic Committee of Ukraine. Local self-government authorities can support activities of local branches of the national Olympic Committee. Sports committee of Ukraine is a public association of physical culture and sport orientation. Its main goal is to ensure the development of non-Olympic sports in Ukraine. It represents Ukraine in relevant international sports organisations, at Global and European Games ofNon-O Olympic sports, at international sports competitions. State authorities and local self-government authorities promote development of physical culture in educational institutions. Physical culture in the sphere of education is aimed at ensuring physical health of pupils and students. For educational institutions, including pre-school institutions, there is a compulsory requirement to employ a specialist in physical culture. Local state administrations and local self-government authorities are responsible for ensuring conditions for physical culture and recreation activities of citizens at places of residence and leisure. Owners of health resort institutions, leisure institutions and tourist infrastructure facilities, in particular, tourist camps, should create conditions for performing physical culture. Forms, content and procedures of organizing physical training and sports activities of military servicemen, employees of law enforcement, units, rescue units and other specialised services are defined according to this Law. Physical training of serviceman is a part of general system of teaching and education of the personnel of Armed Forces of Ukraine. Citizens admitted to preliminary detention centres and in jails are guaranteed the possibility to participate in physical culture and recreation activities. Physical culture education conditions must be the same as conditions for physical culture lessons at general secondary and professional (technical) education institutions. State authorities and local self-government authorities establish organisational and legal conditions for the development of children sport. Sports clubs, specialised institutions of sports education with special study programmes, schools of high sports mastery, regular reserve sports teams of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblasts, cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol. Funding of regular reserve sport teams is performed in accordance to the Law. The list of members of national teams is annually approved by the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport. It consists of the first team of athletes and teams of athletes from various age groups according to the requirements of international sports federations. The fist teams of National teams include athletes that have highest sport results at all-Ukrainian and international competitions. Athletes — members of regular National teams of Ukraine, participate in international competitions or other sports competitions not included in the Unified calendar plan of physical culture and recreation and sports events of Ukraine. Professional sport — a commercial branch of athletic activities related to preparing and conduct of spectacular sports events at the high organisational level and with an aim to receive profit. In Ukraine can not be recognised kinds of sport that are dangerous or pose an extreme risk to the life and health of people or are abusive. The procedure of recognition of kind of sport in Ukraine is defined by a central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport. The unified sports classification of Ukraine determines the sequence, terms and conditions, necessary for awarding athletes and coaches with sport ranks and sports categories in kinds of sport that are recognised in Ukraine. In Ukraine are awarded following sport ranks: Honored Coach of Ukraine Honored Master of Sports of Ukraine. Athletes who gained prize places at Olympic, Paralympic and Deaflympic games, Global games of athletes with mental disorders, World and European championships and their coaches can receive social, household and other incentives. Sport awards include chest pins that distinguish the level of qualification of an athlete or a judge. International sports competitions are conducted by sports event organisers at the territory of Ukraine. They are included by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport. Sports competitions are not recognised and can not be recognised as international, including in advertisements and in information announcements. Financing of physical culture and sports development is performed from the funds of relevant state and local budgets and also from other sources not forbidden by the legislation. Physical culture and sport institutions are relieved from paying land tax according to the Law. The state can provide additional incentives for legal entities and individuals (residents and non-residents), who are involved in charity activities. Material and technical assets in the sphere of physical culture and sport are procured by means of construction and operation of sports facilities. Land lots where sports facilities are located belong to the recreational purpose type of lands. Change of intended operational use of privatised sports facilities is not allowed. Olympic, Paralympic and Deaflympic training camps are included to the list that is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The existing network of state and municipal physical culture and sport institutions can not be reduced without approval from the central executive authority. State ensures training, retraining and professional development of human resources. Business entities that are manufacturing physical culture. and sports gear and equipment may be eligible for the preferential loan and taxation rules according to the Law. Right to conduct physical culture, recreation and athletic activities, physical culture and sport rehabilitation is provided to the experts with special education and relevant level or educational qualification. Coaches and referees shall undergo compulsory attestation according to the procedure defined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy. State provides coaches and other experts with proper conditions for work, leisure, medical services; professional development once every five years. Central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the sphere of physical culture and sport approves five-year plans for scientific and research studies. Funding of the activities provisioned according to such plans, is performed according to the competitive principles and aw. Sports medicine service is funded in accordance with the Law. The President of Ukraine bear civil, disciplinary, administrative and criminal responsibility in accordance with the Law. Article 54. Responsibility for violation of legislation in the sphere of physical culture and sport. The President is responsible for all matters relating to the Ukrainian national team. The president is also responsible for the national team's training and preparation.