This Law establishes the State guarantees of the enforcement of judgments and writs of execution. The terms in this Law shall be used in the meaning defined in the Budget Code of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine ‘On Enforcement Proceedings’ (the ‘judgments’) Judgments for recovery of funds due from a government authority shall be enforced by the central executive authority. Judgment for recovery of funds from a government authority shall be enforced in the manner prescribed by the Law of Ukraine “On Enforcement Proceedings” The recoverer under the judgment must submit an application for enforcement to the central executive authority that implements the State policy in the field of treasury management of budgetary funds. The head of the relevant state bailiff service authority shall submit to the central executive authority that implements the State policy in the field of treasury management of budgetary funds the documents and information required for the transfer of funds to the recoverer. The funds received in the respective account of the state bailiffs service authority will be transferred within ten days from the receipt of all the required documents. The State-owned enterprise or legal entity declared debtors under the judgment shall open, within ten days from the transfer of funds, accounts with the bodies of the central executive authority that implements the State policy in the field of treasury management of budgetary funds. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to the banks in which the State holds one hundred per cent or a share in the authorised capital. An officer or official of government authority, State-owned enterprise or legal entity, whose actions have caused damages to the State budget shall be held liable under the law. The central executive authority that implements the State policy in the field of treasury management of budgetary funds shall file lawsuits for compensation. This Law shall become effective on 1 January 2013. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall prepare and submit, until 1 January 2014, to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine its proposals on making amendments to the laws of Ukraine, which stem from this Law. Judgments for the obligations to perform certain actions in respect of the property, debtors under which include a government authority, a State-owned enterprise or a legal entity shall be enforced in the manner prescribed. Debts shall be paid in the following order of priority: the first priority shall comprise payment of debts under judgments in respect of pension and social payments, recovery of alimony payments, payment of losses or damage caused by crime or administrative offence, mutilation or other damage to health. Budget allocations for payment of debt shall be determined by the law on the State budget of Ukraine for the relevant year.