The purpose of the Law is to create a legal framework for obtaining and using scientific and technical information. This Law regulates the legal and economic relations between citizens, legal entities and the state. It determines legal forms of international cooperation in this field. The Law does not apply to information containing state secrets and other legally protected secrets. Scientific and technical information is public property, a necessary condition for productive intellectual activity, in particular scientific and technical creativity. Information market is a system of economic, organisational, and legal relations related to the sale and purchase of information resources, technologies, products and services. All citizens of Ukraine, legal entities, state authorities, local and regional governments have the right to open scientific andtechnical information. Rights to scientific and technical information created by multiple persons shall be determined by an agreement concluded between the creators of this information. The consumer of scientific andtechnical information is responsible for the observance of rights of the person owning the rights to this info. Relations between the person, who owns rights to information, and the intermediary is regulated by the agreement. The national system of scientific and technical information is a legal and institutional framework that forms the public information policy. It coordinates works on the creation, use, storage and dissemination of national scientific andtechnical information resources while taking into account national security concerns. It consists of: specialised state enterprises, institutions, organisations, state bodies of technical information, scientific, science and research libraries. Information Resources of the National System of Scientific and Technical Information constitute a set of reference and information funds. The use of works of literature, art and science in the process of creating scientific and technical information resources is subject to copyright. Results of scientific research, developmental, design and engineering are subject to registration and accounting. Foreign scientific and technical literature and documentation, databases and data banks can be obtained through currency-free exchange and at the expense of foreign-currency funds. Information on all results of scientific andtechnical activities registered in Ukraine, indicating the location of reporting documentation and conditions of its transfer, shall be disseminated at the request of interested persons. Reviews, analytical and factual information, other types of information products prepared on the basis of analysis, evaluation, and generalization of scientific and technical information are sold on a commercial basis. Reproduction of printed works in the field of science and technology for scientific and educational purposes is carried out on a non-profit basis. The state promotes openness and the general availability of scientific and technical information. Restraints on access, dissemination, and use of information that is a state or other secret protected by law are determined by the laws of Ukraine. The state supports international cooperation in the field of technical information and creates legal and economic conditions for this. Transnational exchange of scientific and technical information is carried out in accordance with the treaties signed by Ukraine. The state shall ensure open and equal access of its citizens and citizens of the partner states under treaties on shared information resources. Foreign legal entities and individuals, as well as stateless persons, may invest in the development of scientific & technical information in Ukraine.