Every citizen in Ukraine shall be guaranteed the right to freedom of conscience. No coercion shall be allowed when a citizen determines his/her attitude to religion. Parents or persons in loco parentis shall have the right, by mutual agreement, to raise their children according to their own beliefs. No one may establish obligatory beliefs and world views. Citizens of Ukraine shall have equal rights in all fields of economic, political, social and cultural life regardless of their attitude to religion. The Church (religious organisations) in Ukraine shall be separated from the State. No one may evade constitutional duties on the grounds of his/her religious beliefs. The state education system in Ukraine shall be separated from the Church (religious organisations) and shall be secular. Access to the various types and levels of education shall be granted to citizens regardless of their attitude towards religion. Teachers of religious doctrines and religious preachers shall educate their attendees in a spirit of tolerance and respect for non-religious citizens. The State shall recognise the right of a religious community to be subordinated in canonical and organisational matters to any religious centres (directorates) operating in Ukraine and abroad. The decision to change subordination and make relevant amendments to the charter shall be adopted by the general meeting of the religious community. Unregulated relations between the State and religious directorates and centres, including those located outside Ukraine, shall be regulated. Charter (regulations) of a religious organisation that determines its legal capacity in accordance with the civil legislation shall be subject to registration. Monasteries and religious brotherhoods may also be formed in the manner provided for in this Law for the formation of religious communities. Citizens enrolled in higher and secondary religious educational establishments shall enjoy the rights and benefits regarding the deferred service, taxation, inclusion of the period of education in the length of service. A religious organisation that belongs to the structure (is a part) of religious organisation (association) the guiding centre (directorate) of which is located outside Ukraine, in the state recognised by law as having committed military aggression against Ukraine and/or temporarily occupied part of the territory of Ukraine, shall undertake to mention in its full name specified in its charter (regulations) its affiliation with a religious organisation outside Ukraine. A religious organisation as a legal entity shall enjoy rights and bear responsibilities in accordance with the legislation in force and its charter (regulations) At least ten citizens, who have formed it and reached the age of 18, shall submit an application and charter for registration to oblast, Kyiv and Sevastopol City State Administrations. Article 14 has been supplemented with a new part under Law No. 2673-VIII of 17 January 2019. Religious centres, directorates, monasteries, religious brotherhoods, missions and religious educational establishments shall submit the charter for registration to the central executive authority that implements the state policy in the field of religion. The charter (regulations) of a religious organisation shall be accompanied by a duly certified copy of the decision (extract) on the establishment of the religious association. If a religious centre (directorate) is a part of or recognises (declares) in any form the subordination of any other religious organisations operating in or outside Ukraine, the registration of the charter will require a document confirming that the religious organisation recognises such subordination. The application signed by the head (other authorised person) of such religious centre will be submitted to the central executive authority that implements the state policy in the field of religion. The charter (regulations) of a monastery, religious brotherhood, missionary society (mission) or religious educational establishment shall be accompanied by duly certified copies of: 1) the decision (extract) on the establishment (foundation) of such religious organisation; 2) a document on the right of ownership or use of the premises at the location of the religious organisation specified in the charter; and 3) the current version of the charter. If a religious organisation fails to rectify the identified deficiencies within the established period, all documents received by the central executive authority that implements the state policy in the field of religion, shall be returned to it with a cover letter explaining the reasons for such return. Amendments to charters (regulations) of religious organisations shall be subject to registration in the same manner and within the same period. Religious organisation may be terminated due to its reorganisation (division, merger, affiliation) or liquidation. Decision to refuse the registration of the charter (regulations) of a religious organisation specifying the reasons for refusal shall be notified to the applicants in writing within ten days. This decision may be appealed against in court in the manner prescribed by the civil procedural legislation. Religious organisations entitled to use for their needs buildings and property provided to them on a contractual basis by state, public organisations or citizens. Religious organisations shall have a preferential right for the transfer of religious buildings with a land plot required for maintenance of these buildings to them. Land plots provided for permanent use to religious organisations for the construction and maintenance of religious and other buildings necessary for ensuring their activities shall not be used for entrepreneurial activities. State-owned religious building that is an outstanding cultural heritage object, a nationally significant architectural site of St. Andrew's Church of the National Sanctuary “Sophia of Kyiv” may be provided for permanent use free of charge for the performance of worship services, religious rites, ceremonies and processions in the manner prescribed by this Article. Religious organisations may own buildings, devotional articles, industrial, social and charitable facilities, transport, funds and other property necessary for ensuring their activities. Religious organisations may also own property located outside Ukraine. Financial and property donations, as well as other income of religious organisations, shall not be taxable. religious organisations shall not have the right to impose compulsory taxation on believers. Profit from production activities and other income of religious organisations shall be taxable in accordance with the legislation in force. Their profit used for charitable purposes shall not be taxable. Property provided for use by the State, public organisations or citizens shall be returned to its previous owner. Worship services, religious rites, ceremonies and processions shall be freely held in religious buildings. Worship services and religious rites in inpatient facilities, hospitals, homes for the elderly and persons with disabilities, pre-trial detention centres and penal institutions shall be held at the request of the citizens staying there or at the initiative of religious organisations. The administration of these institutions shall facilitate this and participate in determining the time and other conditions of the service, rite or ceremony. Religious organisations may send citizens abroad to study in religious educational establishments and accept foreign citizens for this purpose. Ministers, preachers, mentors, and other representatives of foreign organisations who are foreign citizens and temporarily stay in Ukraine may engage in preaching religious doctrines, performing religious rites or other canonical activities. All citizens working in religious organisations, their enterprises and institutions shall be appointed and paid state pension on general grounds in accordance with the legislation. Employees of these organisations, enterprises and Institutions shall pay insurance contributions to the Compulsory State Social Insurance Fund of Ukraine in case of unemployment. Person guilty of violating the legislation on freedom of conscience and religious organisations shall be held liable in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine. Article 32. International treaties If an international treaty to which Ukraine is a party establishes other rules than those contained in the legislation, the rules of the international treaty shall apply.