The Law defines the legal and organisational principles of exercising the right to freedom of association guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine and international treaties of Ukraine. It defines the procedure for establishing, registration, operation and termination of public associations. The specifics of regulating public relations can be determined by other laws. Public associations shall be established and operated on the following principles: 1) voluntary nature; 2) self-government; 3) free choice of the territory for operation; 4) equality before the law; 5) no property interest of their members (participants); 6) transparency, openness and publicity. No property interest of members provides for the payments in favour of members (copyright holders) after the distribution of rights income by the collective management organisation. Transparency, openness implies the right of all members (participants) of a public association to have free access to information about its activities. Membership of the mentioned Head or Deputy Head in the public association is terminated from the day following the day of election of a new Head or a Deputy Head. Requirement to provide information about the membership (participation) of a person in a public association, if such a requirement is not related to the rights exercise, is not allowed. Public association is formed at the founding meeting of its founders and is drawn up in minutes. Members of a public union can be private legal entities, including public associations with the legal entity status, individuals who have reached the age of 18 and are not recognised as legally incompetent by a court. A private legal entity participates in the establishment of a public union through its Head or other authorised representative acting on the basis of a power of attorney. A public association that intends to run operations with or without the legal entity status is subject to state registration in accordance with the procedure established by the Law of Ukraine. Public association name should be stated in the state language. Proper name of an educational institution, agency or organisation included in the proper name of a public association can only be used with the consent of the corresponding educational institution or organisation. Public association can also state its own name in the foreign language, or in the national minority language. In the proper name of a public association, it is prohibited to use historical state names, the list of which is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A public association can also have an abbreviated name, which is determined by the decision of its founding meeting or the supreme management body – congress, conference, general meeting. Charter of a public association can provide for additional provisions on the establishment, operation and dissolution or reorganisation. Separate subdivisions of public associations are not legal entities, except for the cases provided by this Law. The regulation on a separate subdivision of apublic association shall not contradict the laws and the public association charter. A public association with the legal entity status can have its own symbols (emblem, flag) Public association symbols should not reproduce: 1) state symbols of Ukraine; 2) other official symbols or signs used by state bodies; 3) state emblems, flags or official names of other states; 4) name or representation of an individual. A separate subdivision of a foreign non-governmental organisation shall be accredited in Ukraine without granting the legal entity status. Information on the all-Ukrainian status of a public association shall be checked annually by the authorised body for registration in accordance with the Unified State Register of Legal Entities, Individual Entrepreneurs and Public Organisations. A public association with the legal entity status has the right to: 1) be a participant in civil law relations, acquire property and non-property rights in accordance with the law; 2) run entrepreneurial operation directly, if it is provided for by the public association Charter; 3) establish mass media in order to achieve its statutory purpose (aims); 4) participate in the implementation of state regulatory policy. Government authorities, authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self-government authorities can involve public associations in the process of developing and implementing state policy. Public associations with the legal entity status have the right to financial support at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine, local budgets in accordance with the law. A public association with the legal entity status has the right to own, use and dispose of funds and other property. Separate functions of property management can be assigned to bodies, legal entities (companies, enterprises) created by it. In case of reorganisation of a public association, its property, assets and liabilities shall be transferred to the legal successor. A public association has the right to make a decision on termination of its operation (self-dissolution) at any time. Termination of the operation of a Public Union does not have the consequence of termination of legal entities – members of this union. A public association can be prohibited by a court on the claim of an authorised body for registration. The present Law shall enter into force as of the day following the day of its publication and shall be effective as of 1 January 2013. Article 31. Liability for violations of the law. Officials of government authorities, authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self-government authorities, citizens, foreigners, stateless persons shall be held liable. Public organisations, their unions (associations, other associations of public organisations), legalised on the day this Law enters into force by registration or notification of the establishment, do not, respectively, require re-registration or re-submission of documents for communication. All-Ukrainian and international public organisations registered on the. day of entry into force of this Law shall be considered public organisations that have confirmed their all-Ukraine. status. Local branches of such public organisations may be considered for the purposes of Parts 7 -9 of Article 19 of this law. Decisions on changes in the composition of managing bodies, charters (regulations) and location of local branches of all-Ukrainian (international) public organisations are made in accordance with the procedure prescribed by this Law for public associations. The Relevant body that keeps the registration file of the local branch on the day this law comes into force is the authorised body for the registration. Public organisations, their unions (unions, associations, other associations of public organisations) legalised on the day of entry into force of this Law shall submit (send by mail) documents for registration actions to the authorised body for registration at their location. The term for consideration of a notice of changes to the charter, a change in the composition of managing bodies is extended by the time the registration files are sent. Law aims to harmonise Ukraine's regulatory acts with this Law, adoption of regulatory acts provided for by this Law. It also aims to ensure the functioning of the Register of public associations on the basis of the Unified Register of Public Organisations at the time of entry into force of the Law.