The Law establishes the legal and organizational principles of city planning activity in Ukraine. It is aimed at ensuring sustainable development of territories with due consideration of state, community and private interests. The following definitions shall apply: Construction, reconstruction, restoration, major repairs of the construction object, engineering and transport infrastructure. Suburban zone shall mean a territory that ensures the spatial and social and economic development of the city. Red lines shall mean the boundaries of existing and projected streets, roads, and squares that separate built-up areas and territories. Means of unimpeded access to objects shall mean engineering and technical, functional parts (elements, structures) of buildings. The instrument for the state regulation of territory planning shall be the city planning documentation, which is divided into documentation of the state, regional and local levels. City planning documents shall be subject to strategic environmental assessment in accordance with the procedure established by the Law of Ukraine "On Strategic Environmental Assessment". If an international treaty of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada establishes regulations other than those stipulated by this Law, the regulations of the international treaty shall apply. The objects of city planning at the state and regional levels shall be the planning organization of the territory, the settlement system, the system of interconnected complex placement of the main objects of industry, transport, engineering and social infrastructure. Construction objects shall be houses, buildings, structures of any purpose, their complexes and parts. The bodies responsible of city planning and architecture shall include the bodies defined in Article 13 of the Law of Ukraine "On Architectural Activity" The model regulation on the state architectural and construction control bodies shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Management of city Planning shall be carried out by means of: Planning of territories at the state, regional and local levels. 7) Provision (receipt, registration) of documents granting the right to perform preparatory and construction works. 8) implementation of the state architectural and construction control over objects located within and outside localities, on the territory of several administrative and territorial units specified in clause 7, part one of this Article. The heads of structural divisions for state architectural and construction control of the Kyiv and Sevastopol city state administrations, executive bodies of the village, settlement, city councils shall be appointed and dismissed in accordance with the procedure established by law. Such heads must meet the qualification requirements established by the legislation of Ukraine. The statutory regulation of planning and development of the territories shall be implemented through the adoption of regulatory acts. The central executive authority is responsible for shaping and implementing the state policy in the area of construction, city planning and architecture. The works for the elaboration of the necessary project documentation, planning and development of the separate land plots whereon owners or users intend to build shall be financed by such persons. The composition, content and procedure for elaborating schemes for planning certain parts of the territory of Ukraine shall be determined by the central executive authority. The Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the region or district council shall decide on the elaboration of planned layout. The Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, regional or district council shall decide on the elaboration of or amendment to the planned layout of the respective territory. City planning documentation at the local level may be updated by decision of local councils. The updating of city planning documentation shall provide for: Updating of the cartographic and geodetic framework. Transferring thereof from hard copy to vector and digital form. The general scheme of a locality shall be developed and approved for the benefit of the territorial community. For localities with a population below 50 000 citizens, general schemes may be combined with detailed plans for the entire territory of such localities. A zoning plan can also be developed as a separate urban planning document after the approval of the general scheme. The decision to develop a general scheme shall be taken by the relevant village, settlement and city council. The general scheme of a locality may not be amended more than once every five years. General schemes of the localities and amendments thereto shall be reviewed and approved by the respective village, settlement and city councils within three months from the date of their submission. In the event of a state need, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall decide on the necessity to amend the general scheme. The materials of the general scheme of the locality may not contain information with restricted access or be restricted in access. Only general city schemes shall be subject to expert analysis of city planning documentation at the local level. The procedure for carrying out the expertise shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The composition, content and procedure for the development of the territory zoning plan shall be determined by the central executive authority responsible for shaping state policy in the area of city planning. The detailed territory plan shall define: 1) The principles for planning and spatial arrangement of the development; 2) The red lines and development control lines; 3) The functional purpose, regime and parameters of the development of one or more land plots, the allocation of land in accordance with construction regulations and regulations. 4) The city planning conditions and restrictions (in the absence of a territory zoning plan) or clarification. 5) The need for enterprises and institutions providing services to the population. The detailed territory plan within the locality in terms of state-owned land to be leased for the purposes of the public and private partnership, in particular concession, shall be considered and approved by the relevant state administration within 30 days from the date of its submission. In such a case, the works may be financed at the expense of the state budget, the local budget or the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The approval at the local level of city planning documents referred to in part 1 of this Article shall be prohibited without a public discussion of the draft city planning documentation. No public hearings shall be held on issues of expropriation for public use or on grounds of public need of land plots or other immovable property located on them. Public hearings on draft city planning documentation at the local level shall be held within the term set for public discussion, but not earlier than 10 days from the date of publication. A conciliation commission may be set up to deal with disputable issues arising in the course of public discussion. The final decision shall be taken by the customer of the city planning documents. The results of the review of public proposals concerning the draft city planning documentation shall be made public within two weeks of the date of their adoption. The city planning cadastre shall be state or communal system for storing and using geospatial data on territory, administrative and territorial units, environmental, engineering and geological conditions. The Unified State Electronic System for the Construction shall be an integral part of the city planning Cadastre. The Unified State Electronic System for the Construction  (hereinafter referred to as the Electronic system) shall mean the unified information and telecommunication system in the city planning cadastre. It provides for the creation, review, dispatch, acceptance, collection, entry, accumulation, processing, use, consideration, storage, protection, record-keeping and provision of information. The electronic system shall use classifiers, directories, dictionaries and databases maintained by the central executive authority. In order to ensure identification of the location of the construction object, the electronic system will use the dictionary of streets of localities and streets of the named objects of the State Register of Property Rights to Immovable property. The electronic system shall be created using software that ensures compatibility and electronic real-time communication with other electronic information systems and networks. The software of the electronic system should provide the possibility of electronic information interaction in real time. The data may be stored in: The central executive authority responsible for shaping and implementing state policy in the construction, architecture and city planning. The information contained in the electronic system shall be reliable, available and accessible to the public, except for tax card payer registration numbers, passport data, residence data of an individual. Access to the project documentation for the construction of objects shall be carried out in a reading mode without the possibility of copying. Property rights to the software shall be held by the state through the central executive authority. Information and documents obtained by means of electronic system software in hard copy and electronic forms shall have equal legal effect. If the information and documents to be entered in the electronic system are unreliable and have been entered therein, a third party may rely upon it in a dispute as reliable. If an error is detected in the information, the entity concerned shall correct the error within one day. The state bodies, including the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine and the courts, local authorities and their officials, state registrars and notaries, shall receive information free of charge from the electronic system. The Register of Construction Activities provides for the creation, collection, accumulation, processing, protection, recording of the following information. Documents entitling for the preparatory and construction works; Identifiers of construction objects and completed construction objects; Documents certifying the acceptance into operation of the completed construction works. The results of the environmental impact assessment in accordance with the Law of Ukraine "On Environmental Impact Assessment" of Ukraine. Information on self-regulating organizations in the sphere of architectural activities. The electronic system may provide for the creation, collection, accumulation, processing, protection and recording of other information specified by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the Procedure for maintenance of the electronic system. The Register of Construction Activities shall provide for. the creation of the following electronic documents (other than documents containing information constituting a state secret) and performance of such actions. 14) Assignment, modification, correction, cancellation of the address of the construction object and the immovable property object. 15) Registration and deregistration of a self-regulating organization in the field of architecture and energy efficiency. 16) Delegation to and termination of the powers of the self-Regulating organization to conduct professional certification of individual work (services) related to the creation of architecture works. 17) Registration of construction regulations; 18) Referral for inspection, certificate of prevention of inspection in the exercise of architectural and construction supervision. Documents containing information constituting a state secret shall be created in hard copy form in compliance with the requirements of the Law of Ukraine "On State Secret". The list of information contained in the documents specified in this part (except for city planning conditions and restrictions) and applications for their issuance shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Obtaining of a construction passport; Obtaining of outcome data (city planning conditions and restrictions and technical conditions) Expert examination of project documentation for the construction of objects. Environmental impact assessment in accordance with the Law of Ukraine "On Environmental Impact Assessment"; Obtaining the right to perform preparatory and construction works. Payment for services specified in clause 1 of this part and fines for offences in the area of city planning using payment systems via the Internet in real time. Informing the providers of certain types of work (services) connected with the creation of architectural works. Uploading the results of the control surveys of completed construction objects. The users of the e-cabinet shall be customers, licensing authority, licensees, licensing expert and appeals council, expert organizations that examine the project documentation for the construction of objects. Legal entities and individual entrepreneurs - customers of housing construction units - shall upload the photographs of these objects to the online system. The law also provides for the protection of information and personal data using uniform requirements. The electronic system portal shall be a component of the electronic system allowing; 1) Users' access to the e-cabinet; 2) Review by the applicant of the documents submitted in the real-time mode; 3) Applicant's access to results of administrative and other services by means of an electronic system. The city planning monitoring shall mean the observation system, analysis of implementation of city planning documentation, evaluation and forecasting of the status and changes of city Planning objects. Aerospace materials, space-oriented ground-based laser scanning data, and executive surveys of completed construction shall be used in the process. The transfer (allocation) of land plots from the lands of the state or communal property is not permitted. The change of land plot's designated purpose that does not conform to the territory zoning plan and/or the detailed territory plan shall be prohibited. The authorities responsible for the city planning and architecture and the central executive body responsible for implementing the state policy on the land relations shall ensure transparency and completeness of information. The right to develop a land plot shall be exercised by its owner or user, subject to the use of the land plot in accordance with the requirements of the city planning documentation. The design and construction of objects shall be carried out by the owners or users in the following order: obtaining of output data by the customer or the designer. The documents shall be filed to receive, Electronically only through an e-cabinet or other state information system. The documents submitted to obtain the administrative and other construction services specified by this Law shall meet the following requirements: 1) the documents must be in the state language; 2) the text of documents shall not contain erasures or additions, crossed out words or other corrections not stipulated therein. Documents submitted in person shall be in accordance with the Law of Ukraine “On Unified State Demographic Register and Documents Confirming Citizenship of Ukraine, Identity of a Person or their Special Status” In case the applicant is a foreigner or stateless person, the identity document shall be a national, diplomatic or service passport of the foreigner or another identity document of the person. Documents submitted in violation of the requirements defined in this part shall constitute grounds for leaving such documents without consideration. The results of the administrative and other services defined by this Law, using an electronic system, upon request of the applicant, shall be provided in hard copy form. Court judgements entailing changes in the information in the electronic system and the prohibition (cancellation of prohibition) of actions by authorized city planning and architectural bodies and state architectural bodies, construction control and supervision bodies. Identifier of the construction object (completed construction object) shall be not assigned to the public areas and to the auxiliary premises. The structure of the identifier of construction object and the procedure for its determination shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the Procedure for maintenance of the electronic system. If a share of the completed construction object is spun-off, the identifier of the object of which the share is spun off shall remain unchanged. The new identifier will be assigned when performing the technical inventory works of the provider of a technical passport to the relevant object through the Register of Construction Activities. The identifier will also be noted in the following documents:  Planning conditions and restrictions. The address of the immovable property object (hereinafter referred to as the address) shall be a unique structured set of requisites used to identify the object and determine its land location. No address shall be assigned to: 1) Temporary structures; 2) Buildings and structures which are accessary to or are an integral part of the building or structure. The Procedure for assigning addresses which is defined by this Law shall not apply to land plots. Name of the locality and, for objects outside it, the name of the nearest locality (amalgamated territorial community) located within the respective district. Name of the hydrographic, social and economic, nature conservation or another similar object (if any) Number of the object (house, building, structure) and number of the bulk — for multi-bulk objects. The powers to assign, change, correct and cancel addresses may be delegated to the bodies defined in part two, Article 11 of the Law of Ukraine "On the Capital of Ukraine - City-Hero Kyiv" In cities with district divisions, upon decision of city councils, the powers to assigning, changing, adjusting and cancelling addresses may also be delegated. The reasons for the change of address for completed construction object shall be as follows: Changes in the administrative and territorial organization (including changes in the name of region, district and locality) Change of a name of the street, its consolidation and division. The adoption of any additional management documents for the assignment of an address other than those specified in this Article shall not be required. The following documents shall be submitted for a change of address on a completed construction object in the event of its accession, division or spin-off of a share. If, in accordance with the law, a decision is taken to change the boundaries of the administrative and territorial unit, the address assigning body shall align the numbering (if such alignment is required) within 30 calendar days. Documents to change the address of an immovable property object shall be submitted as specified in Article 26-1 of this Law. A decision to change an address shall additionally contain the preliminary address of the completed construction object. The grounds to refuse the change of an address of a completed. construction object upon the application on the. change of the address submitted by an owner (joint owner) of a. completedConstruction object (his/her representative) shall be: Incomplete set of documents submitted;. Incomplete or inaccurate information revealed in the documents submitted, which is confirmed by documents. The address to unauthorised construction objects to which a right of ownership is recognized by a court judgement shall be assigned in accordance with parts four, five, seven-ten of Article 26-5of this Law. Refusal to change an address of a completed construction object on grounds not provided for in this part shall not be permitted. The application on a change of address shall be accompanied by the documents which have been submitted to the address assigning body to change the address. The decision on refusal to assign, change, adjust the address shall additionally contain a reference to the relevant provision (clause, article) of the law, specifying what precisely was violated in the process of preparation and submission of documents. The address assigning body shall be prohibited from requiring any additional documents from the customer for taking a decision on assignment. The address of such an object shall be deemed a location of the land plot whereon the house is built, according to the data of the State Register of Property Rights to Immovable Property. The address shall be assigned at the choice of the customer after the obtaining the right to carry out the construction works or after the commissioning of the completed construction object. The application must be attached with a general scheme of the construction object. It must also include a copy of the document certifying the right of ownership or use of the land plot whereon the object is being constructed (constructed) Copies of documents submitted to have an address assigned shall be certified by the customer (his/her representative) A decision to adjust an address shall additionally contain the preliminary address of the completed construction object. The decision on refusal to assign or adjust the address shall contain a reference to the relevant provision (clause, article) of the law, specifying what precisely was violated in the process of preparation and submission of documents. The address to unauthorised construction objects to which a right of ownership is recognized by a court judgement shall be assigned after the commissioning of such objects. Individual (manor) residential building, summer houses and garden cottages being built (built) on a land plot shall not require a decision to assign an address. The address of such an object shall be deemed a location of the land plot whereon the house is built. The application must be accompanied by a general scheme of the construction object. It must also include a copy of the document certifying the right of ownership or use of the land plot whereon the object is being constructed (constructed) The application must also be certified by the customer (his/her representative) Copies of documents submitted to have an address of the construction object adjusted shall be certified by the customer (his/her representative) The decision to assign/refuse to assign an address shall contain a location of the object under the construction permit document or a document certifying the commissioning of the completed construction object. The decision on refusal to assign, change or adjust the address may contain a reference to the specific provision (clause, article) of the law. An application submitted to the address assigning body not authorised to decide on the assignment, change or adjustment of an address in the territory concerned. Refusal to assign, change and adjust the address on any grounds not provided for in this part shall not be permitted. The homestead, summer and garden land plots may be developed on the basis of the construction passport for the development of a land plot. The construction passport shall be issued by the authorized city planning and architecture body free of charge within 10 working days from the date of the receipt of the relevant application. The main components of the reference data shall be: 1) City planning conditions and restrictions; 2) Technical conditions; 3) Design assignment. A copy of the document certifying the right of ownership or use of the land plot. Copies from topographic and geodesic plan M1: 2000. In the cases defined in part four, Article 34 of this Law and part one, Article 12-1of the Law of Ukraine "On the Legal Regime of the Territory Exposed to Radioactive Contamination" City planning conditions and restrictions shall include: 1) A name of a construction object, which is to reflect a type of construction and the location of an object. 2) Information on the customer; 3) Compliance of the designated and functional purpose of the land plot with the city planning documentation at the local level. 4) The maximum permissible height of buildings, structures and constructions in metres (subject to the restrictions on the use of the airfield area established in accordance with the Air Code of Ukraine) The register of the city planning conditions and restrictions is maintained by the competent city planning and architecture body. Users shall have access to the data of the register free of charge through the official website of the authorized body. The design assignment of the construction objects shall be drawn up and approved by the customer in agreement with the designer. The technical conditions shall take into account that the place of connection to the customer’s engineering networks to the trunk or other engineering networks are located on the boundary of the customer's land plot. The composition, content and procedure for the provision of technical conditions and the procedure for determining the cost of services to be provided shall be determined by the relevant central executive authorities or state collegiate bodies. Designing of public-private partnerships or implementation of concession project on relevant state or communal land may be carried out on the basis of a document, certifying the right to use a land plot. Experts on sanitary and epidemiological welfare of the population, ecology, labor protection, energy saving, fire, man-made, nuclear and radiation safety, who have passed professional certification, will be involved in the expert examination. Designs for objects that are classified as objects with minor consequences (CC1) by the class of consequences (liability) shall not be subject to mandatory expert examination. Mandatory expertise shall be required for the designs of construction objects that: 1) are those with medium (CC2) and significant (CC3) consequences. 2) are constructed in the territories with complex engineering, geological and technological conditions. 3) are subject to an environmental impact assessment in accordance with the Law of Ukraine "On Environmental Impact Assessment" Design documentation for the construction of objects shall not require the approval of state bodies, local government bodies, their officials or legal entities established by such bodies. The class of consequences (liability) of buildings and structures shall be a description of the level of potential threat to the health and lives of people who will permanently or periodically be in the building. Objects with the class of high consequences (СC3) shall include as follows: Monuments of cultural heritage defined in accordance with the Law of Ukraine "On Protection of Cultural Heritage"; Residential, public or multifunctional buildings measured with a height above 100 metres and/or with a level of potential threat to the health and lives of more than 400 people. Integrated territory development can be carried out by means of integrated renovation of quarters of obsolete housing estates (micro-districts) The decision to elaborate a detailed plan for a certain territory shall be deemed also a decision on the integrated development of that territory. The functions of a construction customer within the framework of a public-private partnership, including the implementation of projects carried out under the terms of a concession, may be performed by a private partner. Construction documents referred to in part one of this Article shall remain valid until completion of the construction. The list of construction works which do not require documents authorizing their performance and after the expiry of which the object is not to be commissioned shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The arrangement of means of unimpeded access of persons with disabilities and other low-mobility groups of the population may be carried out. The performance of construction works without the relevant document provided for in this article shall be considered as unauthorised construction. Information on the document giving the right to carry out the construction works, as well as information on the class of consequences (liability) of the object, the customer and contractors shall be placed on the appropriate booth, which is installed on the construction site. The customer shall, in accordance with the law, be liable for the completeness and reliability of the data specified in the notice. The notice of the commencement of preparatory works and the Register of Construction Activities shall include, in particular, the following information: cadastral number of the land plot, the right of ownership or use of which arose before 2004. The right to carry out preparatory works shall be deemed terminated from the date on which the right is entered/ recorded in the Register of Construction Activities. The form of notice of the commencement of construction works and the procedure for its submission shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The right to commence construction works acquired on the basis of the submitted notice may be terminated by the appropriate state architecture and construction control body. The customer shall be liable under the law for the completeness and accuracy of the data stated in the notice of the commencement of construction works submitted by him/her and for carrying out the construction work without notice. Information of termination of the right to commence construction works not later than the working day following the date of receipt of the notice in hard copy. The right to carry out construction works shall be deemed terminated from the date on which the right is entered/ recorded in the Register of Construction Activities. The connection of the construction object to the engineering networks and structures shall be provided to the customer and the general contractor or contractor (if construction works are carried out without subcontractors involved) Permit to carry out construction works shall be issued using the Register of Construction Activities. The application for the issuance of the permit should include the following information: cadastral number of the land plot, the right of ownership or use of which arose before 2004, as well as land used for construction of facilities. The procedure for issuing and revoking a construction permit shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The grounds for refusal to issue a permit to carry out construction works shall be: Failure to provide the documents required to take a decision to issue such a permit; incompliance of submitted documents with the requirements of the law. A permit to carry out the construction works may be revoked by the state architecture and construction control authority in the following cases: Submission by the customer of an application for the revocation of a permit. Existence of information on the liquidation of a legal entity which is the customer. On the basis of an effective court decision, on cancellation of city planning conditions and restrictions. The licensing body shall be the central executive authority that implements the state policy on state architectural and construction control and supervision. The control over compliance with licensing conditions and construction works at construction objects shall be carried out by the licensing body. The effective court judgement on demolition of an unauthorized object shall be enforced in accordance with the Law of Ukraine "On Enforcement Proceedings". The completed construction objects which according to the class of consequences (liability) are considered to be objects of law consequences (CC1) and objects constructed on the basis of a construction permit shall be commissioned by means of registration. The customer shall ensure the control geodetic survey of the completed construction object prior to its commissioning. The results of control geodetic survey and information on the commissioning of completed construction objects shall be transmitted under the procedure of electronic interaction to the State Land Cadastre. The person who carried out the surveying shall enter the results in the Register of Construction Activities with a registration number assigned in that system. Declaration on the readiness of the object for commissioning, submitted in paper form, shall be registered automatically in real-time mode by the software of the Register of Construction Activities. Decision on the registration (return) of a certificate shall be taken by the state architecture and construction control body within 10 working days following the submission of the relevant documents. Failure to submit such conclusions to the state Architecture and Construction control body shall not constitute grounds for extending or refusing the issuance of a certificates. The operation of completed construction objects which have not been commissioned (if such commissioning is provided for by the law) shall be prohibited. A registered declaration on the readiness of the object for commissioning or a certificate shall be the basis for the conclusion of supply agreements. The customer shall be liable under the law for the completeness and reliability of the data specified in his declaration. The customer shall be obliged to transfer the completed construction and connected to the engineering networks residential house, which was built with the use of funds of individuals and legal entities, within one hundred and twenty calendar days from the date of its commissioning. If the customer independently discovers a technical error in the notification on the commencement of preparatory or construction works, the registered declaration of the readiness of the object for commissioning, the notification or declaration shall be amended. Customers of construction objects may resend the notification or submit the declaration in accordance with the requirements established by law. The customer that independently found the technical error and submitted the relevant application, shall not be subject to the penalties. Owners or managers of the construction objects shall ensure the routine inspection and periodic examination of the commissioned objects. Technical inventory of an immovable property object shall mean a set of works for the purpose of determining the actual composition, area, volume, technical condition and/or determining changes in the mentioned characteristics over a certain period of time. The duration of the works and the amount and payment procedure for the technical inventory shall be determined by agreement between the parties. State architectural and construction control shall mean a set of measures aimed at ensuring compliance by customers, designers, contractors and expert organizations with the requirements of city planning legislation, construction regulations and rules for preparatory and construction works. The state architectural andConstruction control shall be carried out at construction objects in accordance with the procedure of carrying out scheduled and unscheduled inspections. Unscheduled inspections on grounds other than those provided for in this article shall be prohibited. Preparatory and construction works which do not comply with the requirements of the legislation, construction regulations and rules, city planning conditions and restrictions, approved design or construction permit for the development of a land plot, shall be suspended. The state architectural and construction control body shall consider cases on administrative offences and city planning offences in accordance with the law. Officials have the right: 1) To free access to construction objects and to objects subject to compulsory inspection; 2) Draw up reports on the commission of offences, acts of inspections and impose fines; 3) In case of detection of violation of requirements of legislation, issue mandatory instructions. The state architectural and construction control body will supervise the inspection and certification of objects and the implementation of safety and security measures during their operation. In one construction object, which is subject to the control, orders on elimination of violations of the requirements of city planning legislation and construction regulations and rules may involve several city planning entities. The chief inspectors of construction supervision shall have the right to: 1) Issue binding orders on the elimination of violations of the city planning legislation; 2) Hold officials of the objects of supervision liable for offences committed in accordance with the law; 3) Initiate disciplinary proceedings against officials. 4. To make representations on the dismissal of the official of the object of supervision to the body which appointed him. Failure of the state architectural and construction control and supervision body to file a claim to the court for the annulment of the decision taken by the object of the supervision shall result in the restoration of the right to perform preparatory and/or construction works. Officials of the objects of supervision shall be liable under the law for failure to comply with the written requirements of the chief construction inspectors. In the event of the entry into force of a court judgement annulling a decision taken in violation of the city planning legislation, the chief state inspector for construction supervision shall draw up a protocol. Laws and other regulatory acts adopted before the effective date of this Law shall be effective to the extent not contradicting this Law. Designs of territory development, land allocation and city planning projects with appropriate conditions and restrictions for land plots development, construction passports, documents for commissioning and certification, developed and/or formalized before the entry into force. The technical conditions for the electric power facility generating alternative energy sources, issued to such customer, shall be valid for the term of fulfilment of obligations. A decision on the definition and allocation of city planning conditions and restrictions in territories where zoning plans or detailed plans of territories have not been approved in accordance with this Law shall be taken by authorized city planning and architectural bodies. Work permits obtained prior to the entry into force of this Law shall remain valid until the works have been completed or until a declaration of the commencement of construction works is registered. State architectural and construction control body shall commission free of charge within 10 working days from the date of submission of the application by the owners (users) of the land plots whereon the objects of construction are located. Law of Ukraine “On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Decentralization of Powers in the area of Architectural and Construction Control and Improvement of City Planning Legislation”. Owners (users) of land plots which, in accordance with this clause, have submitted documents on the commissioning of construction projects which were constructed without a construction permit. The Law of Ukraine “On Planning and Development of Territories” (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 2000, No. 31, Art. 250, with subsequent amendments) shall be declared invalid. The following legislative acts of Ukraine shall be amended: 1) Part five, Article 81 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Ukraine. In clause “d” of part two of Article 68 the word “construction” shall be removed; 3) in the Law of Ukraine “On Investment Activity” (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 1991, No, 47, Art. 646): Paragraphs three and four shall be amended to read as follows: “to obtain a permit for construction works in the cases and according to the procedure established by the law”; and 4) in Article 15: Compulsory state expertise shall be required for investment programmes. In part one of Article 10: in paragraph three the words “regional, local development regulations” shall be removed. In part two of Article 11: paragraph 5 of part one shall be removal. In Article 14: in part 1: Paragraph two shall be amended to read as follows: “Designation of territory for city planning as decided by the relevant council” In Article 21: in part one the words “and choice of land” and “local construction regulations” shall be removed; part 4 shall be exclude; in part five “ and choice ofLand’s” “land plots” will be removed. 6) in the Law of Ukraine “On Ensuring Sanitary and Epidemic Safety of the Population’ (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 1994, No. 27, Art. 218) The words "imputed fuel" shall be replaced with the words "Imputed fuel - by the decision of the customer in case of granting preferences (sub The state expert examination on energy saving shall be carried out by the body authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Construction projects shall be evaluated in accordance with Article 31 of the Law of Ukraine “On Regulation of City Planning Activity” The words “feasibility study and construction, reconstruction, decommissioning, materials” shall be replaced with the word “Materials” In Article 3 the words "On planning and development of territories" shall be replaced with the words “On Regulation of City Planning” In Article 4: Paragraph 2 shall be amended to read as follows: “preparing city planning conditions and restrictions on land development in cases and under the procedure provided by law’ In Article 5: Article 5 shall be deleted; in part four of Article 6, part one of Article 10, paragraph two, part two of Article 26, the words 'local rules for the development of localities' shall be deleting. Part 1of Article 9 shall be amended to read as follows: “Construction (new construction, reconstruction, restoration, capital repairs) of an architectural work is carried out per the approved design documentation, state standards, regulations and rules” Articles 12 and 15 shall be deleted; in part five of Article 14 the words “and local development regulations”; Section III shall be supplemented by Article 16-1. Professional certification of the contractors of works (services) related to the creation of architectural works shall be carried out by the central executive authority on construction, city planning and architecture. Citizens who have passed the professional certification are issued an appropriate qualification certificate. The information on the person who has received the qualification certificate shall be entered in the register of certified persons. In Article 22: Paragraph 3 shall be amended to read as follows: "receive on behalf of the customer city-planning conditions and restrictions on land development" In paragraph five the words “original data for designing” shall be replaced with “city planning conditions and land development restrictions” In Article 23: Par paragraph 3 shall read: “approve the project, if it does not contradict the legislation’; in paragraph four the words "design assignment" shall be removed. In part two of Article 26 the words 'regional and local construction regulations' shall be removal. Part one of Article 17 shall be supplemented with paragraph five to read as follows: “Systematic provision of inaccurate information as part of technical specifications for the engineering support of the construction object” The word “construction” shall be deleted in Article 21 of the Law of Ukraine “On the Regulation of City Planning Activities” Land management projects may also provide for the formation of land plots of state and municipal ownership at the expense of land that is not provided for use. Land management projects related to the improvement of the territories of localities shall be subject to approval by commissions for consideration of issues relating to the approval of land management documentation. Article 19 shall be supplemented with a new part following part one to read as follows: "Upon completion of property construction and commissioning, a bona fide lessee of the land plot provided for the construction and maintenance of the respective property" The words "including local rules for the development of localities" shall be removed. If the lessee continues to use the land plot after the end of the land lease contract and in the absence of a letter of notification to the lessor about objections to the renewal, such contract is considered renewed for the same period and under the same conditions that were provided for in the contract. In the event of a change in the border or intended purpose of a land plot the renewal is carried out in the procedure of obtaining a land plots on the right of lease. The words “regional and local construction regulations” shall be removed; Article 27 shall be deleted. Part three of Article 6 shall be supplemented with paragraph two to read as follows: "It shall not require obtaining a permit (order) for the removal of green spaces" The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall: 1) submit to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine a draft law on personification of responsibility for negative consequences caused by violations of construction regulations, standards and rules; 2) within three months of the introduction of this Law: bring its regulatory acts in line with this Law; ensure that ministries and other central executive local authorities review and cancel their regulatory acts.