This Law determines the procedure for exercising and ensuring the right of everyone of access to information in possession of public authorities. The purpose of this Law is to ensure transparency and openness of the public authorities and to create mechanisms for exercising everyone’s right to access to public information. The Law shall not apply to relations on obtaining information by public authorities during the performance of their functions. Access to information shall be restricted under the law subject to the combination of the following requirements: 1) solely in the interests of the national security, territorial integrity or public order. 2) disclosure of information can cause significant harm to such interests; 3) the harm from publication of the information outweighs public interest in obtaining the information. Confidential information shall mean information restricted by an individual or legal entity, except for the public authorities. Information administrators determined by part 1, Article 13 of this Law, who possess confidential information, may disseminate it only with the consent of persons who had restricted access to such information. Official information may be assigned a stamp “For Official Use” Information administrators possessing the information about a person must provide it with no impediments and on a free-of-charge basis. They must use it only with the purpose and in a way determined by the law. Public information in the form of open data shall be allowed for free further use and dissemination. Public information containing personal data of an individual shall be published and provided at a request in the form of open data. Any person may freely copy, publish, disseminate, use, including for commercial purposes, public information. The list of datasets to be made publicly available, requirements to format and structure of such datasets, frequency of their updating shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Public authorities shall mean government authorities, other state bodies, local governments, authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Business entities possessing the following types of information shall be equated to the information administrators. All information administrators, regardless of the regulatory act under which they act, must be guided by this Law when resolving the issues concerning access to information. Information administrators must make publicly available: organisational structure, mission, functions, powers, main tasks, areas of activity and financial resources. They must also verify the correctness and objectiveness of information provided and update the information made publicly available. Article 15. Making the information publicly available by administrators. Information provided for by part 1 of this Article is to be made publicly available without delay but no later than five business days after the date of approval of the document. Draft regulatory acts, draft decisions of the local governments developed by relevant administrators shall be made public at least 20 business days prior to their consideration with the purpose of adoption. The request registered in accordance with the procedure determined by the information administrator shall be processed by responsible persons for issues of access to public information. Documents in possession of the public authorities must be registered in the recording system. System of recording public information may not be classified as restricted information. Information administrators shall bear responsibility for ensuring access to recording system under the law. Section IV EXERCISING THE RIGHT OF ACCESS TO INFORMATION THROUGH AN INFORMATION REQUEST Article 19. Executing information requests Information administrator must provide a response to the information request not later than five business days after the date of receiving the request. Requester must compensate for the actual expenses on copying and printing. Information in response to a request shall be provided on a free-of-charge basis. The information administrator does not possess and must not, according to his/her competence provided for by the legislation, possess the information requested. The information administrator must refer such a request to an appropriate administrator while simultaneously notifying the requester thereof. It shall be allowed to postpone satisfaction of the information request if the requested information cannot be provided for review. Decisions, actions or inaction of information administrators may be appealed to the head of the administrator, supreme body or court. Liability for violating the legislation on access to public information shall be borne by persons guilty of committing the following violations: failure to provide a response to a request, provision of false, inaccurate or incomplete information. Part 1 of Article 212-26 after words “On Information” shall be supplemented with words ‘On Access to Public Information’ Words “owned by the state’ shall be replaced with “possessed by theState’; 3) part 10, Article 9 of the Law of Ukraine “on Operative Investigation Activity” (The Official Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 1992, No. 22, Article 303; 2000, no.10, Article 79) shall be. supplemented with the following content: “It shall be prohibited to make publicly available or provide the gathered information, as well as information about carrying out President of Ukraine V. YANUKOVYCH City of Kyiv 13 January 2011 No. 2939-VI. submit for consideration to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine draft laws on bringing the laws of Ukraine in line with this Law. ensure that central executive authorities bring their regulatory acts in line. with this law.