This Law shall determine legal, economic and organisational principles of cross-border co-operation. It will apply to actions aimed at establishing and deepening the economic, social, scientific, technological, technological and cultural relations between entities and participants in such relations in Ukraine and relevant entities from neighbouring states. The Law will also apply to joint projects (programmes) State support for the cross-border co-operation development shall mean a set of organisational, legal and financial decisions and actions of government authorities of Ukraine aimed at the implementation of cross- Border Co-operation projects (programmes) State cross-Border Co- cooperation development programme shall mean actions of the government authorities aimed at development of cross border co- cooperation to be implemented using the funds from the State Budget. Cross-border co-operation may be carried out in the economic, social, scientific and technical, cultural and educational, environmental and other fields. Co-ordination of cross-border Co-operation shall be ensured by a central executive authority shaping and enforcing the state regional policy, with the participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Entities of cross-border co-operation of Ukraine may enter into cross- Border Co-operation agreements. The agreements shall regulate legal, organisational, economic and other aspects of co- cooperation. A model form of a cross-BorderCo-operation agreement shall be approved by a central executive authority shaping and enforcing the state regional policy. A cross-border co-operation body shall perform tasks vested in it by territorial communities, their representative offices, local authorities, according to its powers and in accordance with the procedure provided for by the legislation of Ukraine. The main type of activity of the Euro Region Co-operation Association shall be developed and implementation of joint initiatives, actions, projects, programmes and strategies. Charter of the Euroregion co-operation association shall require specification of: name of association, location, tasks and types of activity. Charter of such an association shall be drawn up in the language of a state on the territory of which it is located, and language (languages) of a member (members) of the association. State registration of the Euroregion co-operation association shall be carried out at its location in accordance with the procedure determined by the Law of Ukraine “On State Registration of Legal Entities and Individual Entrepreneurs” Model agreement on forming the Euro Region Co-operation Association and model charter of such an association must be approved by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. State support for the development of cross-border co-operation shall provide for: determining the priority areas of state support. ensuring the conditions for using the organisational, financial, institutional opportunities of entities and participants on the cross- Border Co-operation of Ukraine. preventing the use of special-purpose state support for financing the current needs of socio-economic development of regions. Entities of cross-border co-operation of Ukraine shall provide legal, information, methodological, organisational support to entities and participants in cross- Border Co-operation. approve, in accordance with the determined procedure, the participation of entities in founding the Euroregion co- cooperation association or deny such approval on grounds determined by part 5, Article 9-2 of this Law. develop and ensure implementation of the procedure for financing the cross-Border co-operative projects. The scope of state financial support of the development of cross-border co-operation shall be determined in the law on the State Budget of Ukraine for a relevant year. International technical assistance, loan resources of international financial organisations, funds of the European Union may be used for the joint financing ofCross-border Co-operation projects (programmes) under the legislation of Ukraine. Actions on the implementation of the state cross- border co- cooperation development programmes shall be financed at the expense of budget allocations of main spending units.