The Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine determines the jurisdiction and powers of general courts in civil disputes and other cases stipulated by this Code. The basic principles of civil proceedings shall be as follows: rule of law, respect for honour and dignity, equality of all participants in the trial under the law and before the court. Every person shall have the right to apply to the court for protection of his/her violated, unrecognised or disputed rights, freedoms or legitimate interests under the procedure established by this Code. In cases established by law, authorities and persons who are entitled to apply in the interests of other persons or state or public interests may apply. Cases in courts shall be considered orally and openly, except as provided for by this Code. Any person shall have the right to be present at an open court hearing. A court hearing may be live-streamed upon court permission. If all case parties participate in the court hearing by videoconference, the court meeting must be live streamed on the Internet. Personal papers, letters, recordings of telephone conversations, telegrams and other types of correspondence may be announced in court only with the consent of the persons specified by the Civil Code of Ukraine. The use of video conference, live-streaming via the Internet means within the closed court hearing is not permitted. If the judgment is announced publicly, the case parties, other persons present in the courtroom and media representatives may take photographs, record video and live-stream the announcement of a judgment. If the court delivers a ruling on the case consideration in the closed court hearing, information on a case shall not be disclosed. Civil proceedings in the courts shall be administered in the state language. Courts shall ensure equality of rights of trial participants regardless of the language. Information, for the protection of which a case was considered or the certain procedural actions were taken in the closed court hearing. Such information shall be replaced with alphanumeric symbols. Civil proceedings shall be conducted on an adversarial basis. The case parties shall have equal rights to exercise all procedural rights and obligations provided for by law. Each shall party bear the risk of implications associated with the commission or non-commission of procedural actions. The court shall: 1) govern the trial procedure; 2) promote the settlement of a dispute by reaching an agreement between the parties. The court shall consider cases only upon an application of a person filed in accordance with this Code within their claims. The collection of evidence in civil cases shall not be the responsibility of the court, except as provided for by this Code. The court shall have the right to collect evidence relating to the dispute subject matter on its own initiative only in cases where it is necessary to protect minors or persons who have been declared incompetent. Lawyers, notaries, private bailiffs, arbitration trustees, judicial experts, state authorities, local governments and business entities of the state and municipal sectors of the economy shall register official e-mail addresses in the Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System on a mandatory basis. The court shall consider a case on the basis of the case files in electronic form. Unauthorised interference in the work of the Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System and in the automated distribution of cases between the judges shall entail responsibility established by law. The case parties shall have the right to legal aid. Representation in court as a type of legal aid shall be carried out exclusively by a lawyer. Civil proceedings shall be administered according to the rules provided for in this Code. The writ proceedings are intended for consideration of cases upon applications for recovering insignificant amount of money, which are undisputed or the applicant is not aware of their existence. Simplified action proceedings are meant to consider: 1) insignificant cases; 2) cases arising from labour relations; 3) cases on granting a permission by court for temporary departure of a child. Cases on consumer protection whose cost of claim does not exceed two hundred and fifty times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons. A separate proceeding intended to consider cases of confirmation of the presence or absence of legal facts relevant to the protection of the rights and interests of a person. Cases on recognition of assets as unfounded and cases on their recovery into state revenue shall be considered by the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Jurisdiction of cases, in which one of the parties is a court or a judge, shall be determined by the general rules of the jurisdiction. Claims against legal entities shall be filed in court at their location under the Unified State Register of Legal Entities, Individual Entrepreneurs and Public Organisations. Divorce claims may be brought at the registered plaintiff's place of residence or stay also if he/she has minor or juvenile children. Claims related to compensation for damages caused by injury, other damage to health or death of an individual, or damage caused by a criminal offence may also be filed. Claims against a defendant who does not have a place of residence or stay in Ukraine may be filed at the location of his/her property. Claims related to compensation for damaged caused by a collision of vessels, as well as for recovery of compensation for rescue at sea, may also be filed. Claims for protection of violated, unrecognised or disputed rights, freedoms or interests of individuals. Jurisdiction of cases involving citizens of Ukraine, if both parties reside outside Ukraine, as well as divorce cases between a citizen of Ukraine and a foreigner, shall be determined by a judge of the Supreme Court. Claims arising in respect of immovable property shall be brought at the location of the property or its principal part. A case received by a court for its proceedings in compliance with the rules of jurisdiction shall be considered by it also in the case when during the consideration of a case it became subject to the jurisdiction of another court. Disputes between courts about jurisdiction will be prohibited. A case, in which one of the parties is a court, shall be transferred to the court of higher instance to determine jurisdiction. A judge and, in the case of a panel hearing, a judge-rapporteur to consider a particular case shall be appointed by the Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System. The composition of the permanent panels of judges shall be determined by the conference of judges of the relevant court. Unresolved court cases by a reasoned order of the chief of the court's staff attached to a case file shall be transferred for automated re-distribution. A judge who is not a judge-rapporteur in a case from a panel of judges cannot continue to consider such a case, which may impede the consideration of a case within the time limits established by this Code. If it is impossible to replace a judge terminated from among substitute judges, they shall be replaced by the Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System. A case initiated by a single judge or aPanel of judges shall be considered by the same judge. An application for review of a judgment due to newly-discovered circumstances shall be considered by a chamber, a joint chamber or the Grand Chamber. The results of the automated distribution (re-distribution) of a case shall be recorded in a protocol. Specifics of the division of court cases shall be established. Judges shall be reconsidered by the cassation courts in the judicial chamber of the Civil Court of Cassation (chamber) or the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court (Grand Chamber) A hearing of the chamber in the court of cassation shall be deemed quorate provided that more than half of its members are present. A judge who does not agree with a judgment may express their dissenting opinion in writing. The case parties shall be notified of the existence of a dissenting opinion without announcing its content at a court hearing. A dissenting opinion shall enter into the case file and shall be open for review. A judge who participated in the case consideration by the court of first instance shall not participate in the consideration of the same case. A judge who participated in the settlement of a dispute in a case involving a judge shall not take part in the consideration of a case on the merits or in the review of any judgment adopted therein. A secretary, expert, specialist, interpreter of the court hearing shall be subject to recusal on the grounds specified in Article 36 of this Code. The issue of recusal (self-recusal) of a judge shall be resolved both before and after the commencement of proceedings. The court shall satisfy the recusal if it concludes that it is justified. The establishment of the circumstances specified in clauses 1–4, part 1 of Article 36 of this Code, Article 37 of this code, shall release an applicant from the obligation to provide other proof of impartiality. The issue of recusal by a judge who is not a member of the court shall be resolved within two working days, but not later than the scheduled trial. A recusal received not during the court hearing shall be considered by the court in accordance with the written procedures. Failure by a person against whom the recusal has been filed to attend a court hearing, in which the issue of a judge recusal is being resolved, shall not prevent the court from considering the issue. If the application for recusal of a judge who considers a case alone is satisfied, a case shall be considered in the same court by another judge. If after satisfaction of recusals (self-recusals) or due to the grounds specified in Article 37 of this Code it is impossible to form a new court for consideration of a case, a cases shall be referred by the presiding judge's order to another court determined under this Code. The case parties shall: 1) show respect to the court and to other trial participants; 2) promote the timely, comprehensive, complete and objective establishment of all the case circumstances; 3) appear in court upon its summon, if their appearance is recognised by the court as mandatory; 4) submit all available evidence in the manner and within the time limits established by law. A case party shall be released from the obligation to send to other case parties or submit to the court copies of documents in accordance with the number of case parties. If the volume of documents is excessive, the court shall send to the parties only the copies of procedural documents. The court is obliged to take measures to prevent abuse of procedural rights. The court shall promote the creation of appropriate conditions for the exercise by a minor or juvenile of his/ her rights. Individuals who have reached the age of majority, as well as legal entities, shall have the ability to personally exercise civil procedural rights and perform their duties in court. Minors between the ages of 14 and eighteen, as well as persons with limited civil dispositive capacity, may personally exercise civil procedural rights and perform their duties in court. The court may involve in such cases a legal representative of a minor or a person whose civil disposive capacity is limited. A change in the subject or grounds of a claim in a retrial shall be allowed within the period established by part 3 of this Article only if it is necessary to protect the rights of a plaintiff. The court of first instance shall be authorised to involve a co-defendant at the plaintiff's request. Court may involve a co-defendant in a case or replace the original defendant with the appropriate defendant only if a plaintiff proves that they did not know and could not know before filing a claim the basis for the involvement. Third parties declaring independent claims on the subject of a dispute shall enjoy all the rights and bear all the obligations of a plaintiff. The National Agency on Corruption Prevention may join as a third party, making no separate claims with respect to the matter in dispute and acting on the side of the plaintiff. The court shall deliver a ruling on the involvement of third parties in a case, in which it specifies the rights or obligations of such person. Third parties who do not declare independent claims shall have the procedural rights and obligations established by Article 43. In case of death of an individual, liquidation of a legal entity, replacement of a creditor or debtor in an obligation, the court shall involve the successor of the relevant party or third party in any stage of the trial. All actions committed in the civil proceedings before the successor intervenes shall be binding on them in the same way they were binding on the person whom the successor substituted. In cases specified by law, a prosecutor shall apply to the court with a statement of claim, participate in the consideration of cases on their claims, as well as may intervene on their own initiative in a case. State authorities and local governments may be involved by the court in the case. Failure to comply with these requirements shall result in the application of the provisions of article 185 of this Code. The National Agency on Corruption Prevention may file a statement of claim (lawsuit) to the court in the interests of the whistle-blower. Article 57. procedural rights of bodies and persons who by law have the right to refer to court on behalf of other persons. A party, a third party, as well as a person who by law has the right to refer to the court on behalf of the other person, may participate in the proceedings in person (self-representation) and (or) through a representative. State authorities and local governments involved in the case for submission of an opinion shall have the procedural rights and obligations established by Article 43. The same person may simultaneously represent several plaintiffs or several defendants or several third parties on one side. A person who participates in the case as a court secretary, expert, specialist, interpreter and witness or is an assistant judge who is hearing the case may not be a representative in court. The powers of representatives of the parties and other case parties must be confirmed by the following documents. The powers of a lawyer as a representative shall be confirmed by a power-of-attorney or a warrant issued under the Law of Ukraine “On the Bar and Legal Practice” The conformity of the copy of the document confirming the representative's powers may be certified by the judge's signature. The court may appoint or replace a legal representative at the request of a minor or juvenile, if it is in his/her best interests. A representative empowered to conduct a case in court shall exercise, on behalf of the person he represents, his/her procedural rights and obligations. Restrictions on the representative's powers to perform a certain procedural action must be provided for in the power-of-attorney or warrant issued to him. The court administrator shall ensure the proper condition of the courtroom and invites the trial participants. The secretary of the court hearing shall act as a court administrator if the latter is absent. The court may allow a witness to attend the hearing by videoconference, regardless of the objections of the parties. A witness shall have the right to testify in his/her native language or in the language he/she speaks. A person who refuses to testify shall be obliged to state the reasons for the refusal. An expert who has the special knowledge necessary to clarify the relevant circumstances of the case may be an expert. A legal expert with a scientific degree and a recognised specialist in the field of law may be involved as a legal expert. A legal expert shall have the right to know the purpose of his/her summons, to refuse to take part in the trial if he/she does not have the relevant knowledge, as well as to get paid for services. A specialist shall mean a person who has special knowledge and skills necessary for the use of technical means. The help and advice of a specialist shall not replace the expert conclusion. The specialist shall appear in court upon his/her summons, to answer the questions asked by the court, to provide consultations and clarifications. The court does shall take into account evidence obtained in violation of the procedure established by law. The parties shall have the right to substantiate the properness of specific evidence to support their claims or objections. The reliable evidence shall mean the evidence allowing to establish the true case circumstances. The court shall not consider evidence that does not relate to the subject of proof. The issue on the sufficiency of evidence for establishing the circumstances relevant to the case shall be addressed in accordance with its internal convictions. Each party shall prove the circumstances, to which it refers as the basis of its claims or objections, except as provided for by this Code. In cases on discrimination, the plaintiff shall provide the actual data confirming that the discrimination has taken place. The court may not collect evidence relating to the dispute subject matter on its own initiative. Circumstances recognised by the case parties shall not be subject to proof if the court has no reasonable doubt as to the authenticity of these circumstances. Refusal to recognise the circumstances shall be accepted by the court if the refusing party proves that it has recognised these circumstances as a result of a material error, deception, violence, threat or serious circumstance. The parties and other case parties shall submit evidence in the case directly to the court. In case of failure to submit the evidence within the period established by law for objective reasons, the case party shall notify the court in writing. Circumstances established by the arbitral award or international commercial arbitral awards shall be subject to proof in general procedure when considering the case. If it is impossible to provide evidence independently, a case party shall have the right to file a petition to request for evidence by the court. Such a petition must be filed within the period specified in parts two and three of Article 83 of this Code. In case of satisfaction of the petition the court by the ruling shall request for the relevant evidence. The General Court of Appeal may demand evidence at the location of the evidence. Written, physical and electronic evidence that cannot be brought to court shall be examined at their location. If necessary, witnesses, interpreters, experts, specialists may be involved, as well as photography, sound and video recording may be authorised. The General Court of Appeal at the location of evidence may examine the evidence at their location at the request of the arbitration court or international commercial arbitration. If necessary, the court may engage a specialist to conduct such an examination. The court may appoint an expert examination to establish and record the content of the website (page) The court hearing the case or the application for the provision of evidence shall instruct the relevant court to take certain procedural actions. Examination of perishable material evidence at their location shall be carried out under the procedure established by article 85 of this Code, taking into account the peculiarities specified in this Article. After inspection, this physical evidence shall be returned to the persons who provided it. Testimony of a witness shall mean a statement of circumstances relevant to the case, he/she is aware of. If a witness cannot disclose the sources of his knowledge of a particular circumstance, this shall not be construed as a testimony of a witnesses. If testimony is based on the statements of other persons, those persons shall also be interrogated. If it is not possible to interrogate the person who provided the initial notification, testimony may not be admissible.  Answers to questions shall be submitted to the court by a case party, which is an individual, head or other official of a legal entity. A copy of such witness statement shall be sent to the case party who asked the questions in writing, within the same period. The case party shall have the right to refuse to provide answers to the following questions. The court shall decide on the issue of providing or prepaying the costs of the witness related to his/her interrogation. The case parties shall have the right to submit written evidence in electronic copies, certified by an electronic digital signature. An electronic copy of a written evidence shall not be considered as electronic proof. Physical evidence shall refer to objects of the physical world, the existence, qualities, specifics, location and other features of which enable establishing of circumstances essential for a case. Material evidence that cannot be delivered to the court shall be stored at their location by a court ruling. Electronic evidence shall mean the information in electronic (digital) form containing data on the circumstances relevant to the case. Electronic evidence shall be submitted in the original or in an electronic copy certified by an electronic digital signature. The case parties shall have the right to submit electronic evidence in paper copies, certified in the manner prescribed by law. A paper copy of an electronic evidence shall not be considered a written evidence. If a copy (paper copy) of the electronic evidence is submitted, the court may demand the original electronic evidence. The court shall have the right at the request of the case parties or on its own initiative to summon an expert to provide oral explanations on his/her opinion. The expert conclusion shall indicate: when, where, by whom (name, education level, qualification, as well as a certificate of a forensic expert qualification) The court shall issue a ruling stating the grounds for the examination, the questions on which the expert must provide the court with an opinion. The questions posed to the expert and his conclusion thereon may not go beyond the expert's special knowledge. The case parties shall have the right to propose to the court questions which, in their opinion, shall be clarified by the expert conclusion. The procedure for conducting the expert examination and drawing up the expert conclusions based on the results of the conducted expert examination shall be determined under the current legislation of Ukraine on conducting forensic expert examinations. A case party shall have the right to submit to the court an expert conclusion drawn up at his/her request. The materials necessary for the expertexamination shall be provided to the expert by the court. Expert shall have no right on his/her own initiative to collect materials for the examination, or to disclose information that became known to him/her in connection with the examination. The expert appointed by court shall not have the right to communicate with the trial participants outside the court hearing. An expert conclusion for a court shall not have the preliminary determined force. The court's rejection of the expert conclusion must be motivated in the judgment. Single-discipline expert examination shall be executed by at least two experts in the same field of knowledge. The expert's conclusion shall indicate the kinds of research executed and the scope of the research, what facts were established and what conclusions were reached. The expert conclusion in the field of law shall not mean evidence, but it shall be of an auxiliary (advisory) nature, not binding on the court. The Court may refer to the expert conclusion as the source of the information contained therein and shall draw its own conclusions on the relevant issues. The court may revoke the ruling on taking measures to provide evidence no later than the next day after expiration of such period. If a ruling on the provision of evidence at the time of its revocation was executed in whole or in part, the evidence obtained by the court (testimony of witnesses, expert conclusions, etc.) may be used in another case. A person who has filed an application for the provision. of evidence shall be obliged to reimburse the court costs, as well as damages. caused in connection with the provisionof evidence. Application for the provision of evidence shall be considered in a court hearing in the general manner provided for by this Code, with regard to special provisions established by this Article. The application shall be signed by the applicant or his/her representative. A court fee in the amount established by law shall be paid for the submission of an application. The court may provide evidence without notifying other persons who may obtain the status of case parties. Damages caused by the provision of evidence shall be reimbursed in the manner prescribed by law, taking into account the provisions of Article 159 of this Code. The court shall set reasonable period for implementing the procedural actions. The period for performance of procedural actions shall be established by law. The period established by law or by a court shall be calculated in years, months and days, and may also be determined by reference to an event that will inevitably occur. A period shall be reasonable if it provides for the sufficient time, taking into account the circumstances of the case, to implement the procedural action. The procedural period established by the court may be extended upon the case party's application, submitted before the expiration of this period, or on the initiative of the court. The court shall issue a ruling on the renewal or extension of the procedural period. Court summons and notifications shall be executed by court writs of summons-notifications. A party or his/her representative may, with their consent, be issued writs of summons to be served on the relevant trial participants. The court writ of summons may be served directly in court, and in the case of adjournment of the case on the date, time and place of the next hearing may be notified against a receipt. The court shall summon or notify a witness, expert, interpreter, specialist, and in cases of urgency provided for by this Code. The court writ of summons to the legal entity shall be sent at its location or at the location of its representative office, branch. The procedure for publishing announcements on the web-portal of the Ukrainian Judiciary shall be determined by the Regulations. The announcement on summons shall indicate the data specified in clause 1–7 and 9 of part 1 of this Article. The court writ of summons-notification shall contain the name and address of the court, the name of the case, an indication of the procedural status of the notified person, and that participation in its performance is not mandatory. Trial participants shall be obliged to inform the court about the change of their place of residence (stay, whereabouts) and the reasons for non-appearance at the court hearing. If a case party is in custody or serving a sentence of life imprisonment, imprisonment for a period, detention in a disciplinary battalion of servicemen, arrest, the writ of summons and other court documents shall be handed to him/her against a receipt. Trial participants shall be obliged to inform the court of the reasons for non-appearance at the court hearing. The search for the defendant shall be conducted by the National Police of Ukraine. The costs of its conduct shall be collected from the defendant to the state revenue by judgment. The court may determine in advance the amount of court costs (other than the costs of professional legal aid) related to the case proceedings or a particular procedural action. Such the amount preliminary determined by the court shall not limit the court in the final determination of the court costs amount to be distributed between the parties. The amount of the security for costs related to the professional legal aid shall be determined by the court. The unused part of the amount paid by the plaintiff shall be returned to the plaintiff not later than five days from the date of resolving the issues specified in this part. The court may, in the manner prescribed by law, reduce the amount of due court costs associated with the proceedings, or exempt from payment thereof. Costs related to the legal aid of a lawyer shall be borne by the parties, except in cases of providing legal aid at the expense of the state. The amount to be paid in order to reimburse the lawyer's costs necessary for the provision of legal aid shall be established according to the terms of the contract. The costs of moving to another settlement of the parties and their representatives, as well as renting accommodation, shall be borne by the parties. The party in whose favour the judgment was rendered and his/her representative shall be compensated by the other party for lost earnings or time-off from regular employment. An expert, specialist or interpreter shall be remunerated for works performed in relation to the case. The court has the right to seize the money or property of such a party within the scope of amounts to be recovered. The amount of costs for the work of the expert, specialist, interpreter involved by the party shall be commensurate with the complexity of the work, its volume and time spent by him/her to fulfil the work. The court fee shall be imposed on the parties in proportion to the amount of the satisfied claims. The maximum amount of compensation for costs related to the examination of evidence at their location and the performance of other actions necessary for the consideration of the case shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If the amount of court costs claimed for reimbursement significantly exceeds the amount stated in the preliminary (approximate) calculation, the court may refuse the party in whose favour the judgment was adopted to reimburse court costs. If both parties are exempt from court costs, they shall be reimbursed by the state in the manner prescribed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In case of partial satisfaction of the claim, the court may oblige the party on which a larger amount of court costs is imposed to pay the difference to the other party. Legal costs of a third party who does not make independent claims on the subject of the dispute shall be collected in his/her favour from the party determined under this Article. The court at the plaintiff's request shall award recovery of costs incurred by him/her in the case from the defendant. If the parties at the time of concluding the settlement agreement did not provide for the order of the court costs distribution, each case party shall bear half of the costs. In case of closing the proceedings or leaving the claim without consideration, the defendant shall have the right to claim compensation. In case of repeated performance of the actions specified in part 1 of this Article, by the interpreter, the court shall announce a break and provide a time for his/her replacement. The court may order the temporary seizure of this evidence by the state executor for examination by the court. The court may rule to impose a fine in the amount of from 0.3 to 3 times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons on the relevant person into the state budget revenue in the following cases. Persons who cannot be interrogated in accordance with Article 70 of this Code, as well as minors or juveniles, pregnant women and persons with disabilities shall not be subject to the compulsory attendance. The court may revoke its ruling to impose a fine if the person against whom it is imposed has remedied the breach and provided evidence of the reasonableness of the excuses for non-compliance. Security for claim shall be allowed both before filing a statement of claim and at any stage of the proceedings, if a failure to take such measures may significantly complicate or prevent the enforcement of a judgment. The court may apply several types of security for claim. Measures to secure the claim, other than the seizure of a sea-going vessel, shall be commensurable to the plaintiff's claims. It is not allowed to seize wages, pensions and scholarships. Perishable items may not be seized. It is not allowed to secure the claim by suspending the temporary administration or liquidation of the bank, prohibiting or establishing the obligation to perform certain actions. It shall not be allowed to. secure a claim by suspending the decisions (regulatory acts or individual acts) of the National Bank of Ukraine, as well as establishing for the. National Bank, its officials and officers a ban or obligation to Perform Actions. Property (assets) or funds of a client of an insolvent bank or a bank subject to the judgment to revoke a banking license and liquidate a bank may be transferred to the beneficiary or transitional bank. In this case, the transferred property or funds shall remain encumbered according to the court ruling on the seizure. The application of the security for claim shall be submitted in writing, signed by the applicant. Application for securing a claim in the form of seizure of a seagoing vessel shall be submitted in writing. The application on securing the claim by seizing the assets that are the subject of the dispute shall contain sufficient data allowing to consider the assets unfounded. If the application is filed before the opening of proceedings, such application shall additionally stipulate the full title (for legal entities) of other persons who may obtain the status of a case party. An application for the seizure of a seagoing vessel shall be filed at the location of the port of registration of the vessel. The application shall be accompanied by documents confirming the payment of the court fee in the prescribed manner and amount. The statement may indicate several measures to secure the claim, justifying the appropriateness of each of these measures. The application for securing the claim in the case, which is submitted to international commercial arbitration, arbitration court, shall be submitted to the appellate court. The court may summon the person who filed the application to provide explanations or additional evidence confirming the need to secure the claim. In exceptional cases, when the explanations and evidence provided by the applicant are insufficient, the court may order its consideration in a court hearing. The court may decide to seize the assets that are the subject of the dispute in the case of recognition the assets unfounded and their recovery in the state revenue. The assets with the value equal to or exceeding 200 times the minimum wage set as of 1 January of the relevant year shall be transferred with the owner's written consent. The court may require the person who filed the application to secure the claim, to provide compensation for damages of the defendant, which may be caused by securing the claim. The amount of counter-security shall be determined by the court taking into account the circumstances of the case. Counter-security measures must be commensurate with the measures on securiting the claim enforced by theCourt. The term for providing counter-security shall be determined by the court and may not exceed ten days from the date of the ruling on securing the claim. If the person fails to fulfil the requirements of the court regarding counter-securing, the court shall cancel the ruling. Counter-security may be revoked by the court at any time at the reasoned request of the defendant or another person whose rights or legally protected interests are violated due to the adoption of measures to secure the claim. The funds deposited by the person on the court's deposit account for the purpose of counter-security shall be returned to the person who provided it. The court ruling on securing the claim shall be an executive document and must meet the requirements for the executive document established by law. A ruling on seize of a seagoing vessel shall be the basis for the detention of the vessel or restriction of its movement in the port where such vessel is located or to which it is headed. The defendant submits to the court a document confirming the security of the claim under part 4 of Article 156 of this Code. The defendant's petition to cancel the security measures taken by the court shall be considered. If the court decides to satisfy the claim, the measures to secure the claim shall continue to apply within ninety days. Moves to secure the claim, taken by the court before filing the statement of claim, shall be cancelled in case of refusal to consider such a case or termination of its consideration by international commercial arbitration, arbitration court. Compensation for damages caused by securing the claim shall be performed primarily at the expense of the costs for counter-security. Claims have been filed for the recovery of the amount of salary and average earnings accrued but not paid to the employee during the delay in payment. A claim has been filed to recover alimony for one child – one quarter, for two children – one third, for three or more children – half of the earnings. Court fee in the amount established by law shall be charged for submission of an application for issuance of a court order. The applicant shall have the right to withdraw the application before its consideration by the court. If the application is submitted to the debtor who has a registered official e-mail address, the applicant shall subsequently submit any procedural and other documents related to the consideration of his/her application exclusively in electronic form. A judge shall refuse to issue a court order if: 1) the application is filed in violation of the requirements of Article 163 of this Code; 2) it is not signed or is signed by a person who is not entitled to sign it; 3) the claim that does not meet the requirements has been filed; 4) there are circumstances provided for in part 1 of Article 186. A judge may use the data from the Unified State Demographic Registry to determine the jurisdiction. If the information received by the court does not make it possible to establish the duly registered place of residence (stay) of the individual who is a debtor, the court shall refuse to issue a court order. The court no later than ten days from the date of receipt of the court order shall adopt a ruling on submission of the application. The court shall consider the application for the issuance of a court order within five days from the date of its receipt. The consideration shall be held without a court hearing and notification of the applicant and the debtor. A court order shall not be subject to appeal, but it may be revoked. The court order shall be drawn up and signed by the judge in two counterparts, one of which shall remain in court and the other shall be issued against a receipt. The information specified in clauses 9–11 of part 1 of this Article shall be entered in the court order on the day of its issuance to the recoverer to submit for enforcement. An application for revocation of a court order shall be submitted to the court in written form. The application shall be signed by the debtor or his/her representative. The judge shall issue a ruling on its return without consideration not later than two days from the date of its receipt by the court. The court order may be reviewed due to newly discovered circumstances in the manner prescribed by chapter 3, section V of this Code. In case of issuance of a court order under clause 4 of part 1 of Article 161 of this code, the debtor shall have the right to apply to the court to reduce the amount of alimony. The court shall send a duplicate (text) containing information about the web address of such court order to the recoverer. Court may amend the court order, declare it unenforceable, postpone it or authorise its enforcement in instalments in the manner prescribed by Articles 432, 435 of this Code. Court may oblige a state authority or a local government to submit a relevant statement on the merits (except for a statement of claim) 1) full title (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic, for individuals) of the parties and other case parties. 2) indication of the cost of claim, if the claim is subject to monetary valuation; reasonable calculation of amounts collected or disputed. 3) the content of claims: the method (methods) of protection of rights or interests provided by law or contract. Cost of claim shall be equal to the amount that is collected, or the disputed amount under the executive or other document. In claims for recognition of the right of ownership to the property or a request for it, it shall be the value of the property. The statement of claim may contain other information necessary for the proper resolution of the dispute. If the cost of claim determined by the plaintiff obviously does not correspond to the actual value of the disputed property, the amount of the court fee shall be determined in advance by the court. In case of increase of the size of claims or change of the claim subject, the unpaid amount shall be paid before applying to the court with the relevant statement. If necessary, the statement of claim shall be accompanied by petitions and statements of the plaintiff. Defence shall contain: 1) title (name) of the plaintiff and case number; 2) full title (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic) (for individuals) 3) the claims recognised by the defendant, in the case of full or partial recognition of claims. 4) objections (if any) to the circumstances and legal grounds of the claim stated by the plaintiff, with which the defendant does not agree. The defence shall be filed within the period established by the court. The court should set a period for filing a response to the defence. This will allow the plaintiff to prepare his/her considerations, arguments and relevant evidence, with the other case parties to receive a defence in advance before the trial on the merits. The defendant can also provide objections to the case parties. The court shall set a time limit that will allow the third party to prepare his/her arguments, considerations and relevant evidence and submit the explanations to the claim or defence. The third party's explanations shall be subject to the rules established by parts 3–6 of Article 178 of this Code. Article 183. General requirements for the form and contents of a written statement, petition, objection. The requirement to indicate the identification code of a legal entity according to the Unified State Register of Enterprises and Organisations of Ukraine shall apply only to legal entities registered under the legislation of Ukraine. The claim shall be submitted by means of filing a statement of claim with the court of first instance, where it shall be registered and given to the judge no later than the next day. The ruling to leave the statement of claim without motion shall indicate the deficiencies of the statement. The method and term of their elimination may not exceed ten days from the date of service of the ruling. If the plaintiff has not eliminated the deficiencies within the period prescribed by the court, the statement shall be considered as not submitted and shall be returned to the plaintiff. The judge shall return the statement of claim and the documents attached hereto no later than five days from the date of its receipt. The court shall issue a ruling on the return of the statement. The ruling to return the statements of claim may be appealed. In case of return on the grounds provided for in clause 6 of part 4 of this Article, the court fee paid for filing the claim shall not be refunded. The ruling to refuse to open the proceedings shall be adopted no later than five days from the date of receipt of the statement. The ruling to refusal to open proceedings in the case may be appealed. In case of revocation of this ruling, the statement of claim shall be considered submitted on the day of the initial appeal to the court. The rules of the action proceedings (general or simplified) to be applied while considering the case. The date, time and place of the preparatory hearing, if the case is considered in the general action proceedings. The period for providing explanations by third parties who were involved in the opening of proceedings. Information on the place of residence (stay) of an individual shall be provided within five days from the moment of receipt. A judge may also use the data of the Unified State Demographic Register for the purpose of determining jurisdiction. A single statement of claim may combine several claims related to the basis of origin or the evidence submitted, as well as the main and derivative claims. Combining cases into one proceeding may be allowed before the beginning of the preparatory hearing. Court may separate the claims on the merits, having allocated one or more combined claims to separate proceedings. Consideration of the claims allocated for independent proceedings shall be carried out by the judge who has made the judgment on separation of claims. The ruling to open the proceedings shall be sent to the case parties, as well as to other persons, if they are required to provide the evidence. The defendant shall have the right to send: 1) to the court, a defence to the statement of claim and all written and electronic evidence (which can be delivered to the Court) 2. to the plaintiff, other defendants and third parties, a copy of a defence. A counter-claim filed in compliance with the general rules for filing a claim shall fall under the requirements of Articles 175 and 177 of this Code. Third party's claim with independent claims shall apply to third party's claims on the subject matter of the dispute in the case subject to the opened proceedings. 4) shall decide on the entry of other persons into the case proceedings, replacement of the improper defendant, involvement of the co-defendant. 5) may explain to the case parties what circumstances are included in the subject of proof, what evidence must be submitted by a particular case party. A preparatory hearing shall be held under the rules established by Chapter 6 of this Section. Due to the entry of a third party who makes independent claims on the dispute subject matter into the case, such person, as well as other case parties shall have the right to apply for consideration of the case. In case of postponement of the preparatory hearing or announcement of a break, the hearing shall continue from the stage at which the hearing was postponed or a break was announced. Filing a response to the defence and objection within the period established by the court. Settlement of a dispute with the participation of a judge. Settlement of a dispute with the participation of a judge shall be carried out in the form of joint and (or) closed meetings. The parties shall have the right to participate in such meetings by videoconference in the manner prescribed by this Code. The judge shall have no right to provide legal advice and recommendations to the parties, to assess the evidence in the case. During the settlement of a dispute with the participation of a judge, it shall be prohibited to use portable audio devices, as well as to take photo and film, video and sound recordings. If necessary, an interpreter may be involved in the hearing. The interpreter shall be warned about the confidentiality of the information obtained. Plaintiff may withdraw a claim, and the defendant may recognise a claim at any stage of the proceedings. If the defendant recognises the claim upon the due legal grounds, the court shall adopt a judgment to satisfy the claim. The court shall not accept the plaintiff's waiver of a claim in the case where the person is represented by his/her legal representative, if the person's actions are contrary to the interests of the person he/she represents. The terms of the settlement agreement contradict the law or violate the rights or legally protected interests of others. The court shall consider the case on the merits within thirty days from the date of commencement of the hearing. The case party shall have the right to apply a petition for consideration of the case in his/her absence. The court hearing shall be held in a specially equipped room – the courtroom. Individual procedural actions may be taken outside the courtroom if necessary. During the consideration of the a on the merits, the court shall promote the reconciliation of the parties. The identity of the case party shall be verified by means of an electronic signature, and if the person does not have such a signature, it shall beverified in the manner prescribed by the Law of Ukraine. The court considering the case shall record the videoconference in which the case parties participate. The technical means and technologies used by the court and the participants in the judicial proceedings must ensure the proper quality of the image and sound. Trial participants should be able to hear and see the progress of the trial, ask questions and receive answers. The presiding judge shall direct the course of the court hearing, ensure observance of the sequence and order of procedural actions, exercise of procedural rights and performance of duties by the trial participants. The case parties shall transfer documents and other materials to the presiding judge through the court administrator. All persons present in the courtroom shall hear the judgment standing up. Guilty persons shall be held liable for contempt of court. The presiding judge shall explain to the interpreter his/her rights and obligations established by this Code. The interpreter shall sign the text of the oath and the receipt signed by the interpreter shall be attached to the case. Witnesses shall be excluded from the courtroom to the premises set aside for this purpose without being able to get acquainted with the course of the court hearing. The court shall leave without consideration statements and petitions which have not been filed in the preparatory proceedings or within another term determined by the court against a reasonable excuse. Non-appearance at a court hearing of any case party, provided that he/she has been duly notified of the date, time and place of that hearing, shall not preclude consideration of the case. Non-appearance at the court hearing of the case party (his/her representative), except for the defendant, regardless of the reasons for non-appearing. Non-appearances of the defendant (adopts a judgment in absentia) If the case is considered in the absence of the plaintiff, the judge-rapporteur shall announce the summary of the statement of claim. The presiding judge shall explain to the expert his/her rights and obligations established by this Code. Experts working in state expert institutions shall be clarified the rights and. obligations of an expert and administered an oath by the head of the expert institution. The text of the oath and the receipt signed by the expert shall be attached to the case. With the presiding judge's consent, the case parties ask each other questions. If several claims are made in the case, the court may order the parties and other case parties to provide a separate explanation for each of the claims. The presiding judge may, on his/her own initiative or at the oral petition of a case party, withdraw issues that do not relate to the subject matter of the dispute, and ask questions to the trial participant. Material, written and electronic evidence shall be examined in court, except as provided by this Code. The reproduction of audio and video recordings shall be carried out in a court hearing or in another room specially equipped for this purpose. The first person to ask a question shall be the person at whose petition the expert was summoned. Each interrogated witness shall remain in the courtroom until the end of the consideration. The court may simultaneously examine witnesses to clarify the reasons for the discrepancies in their testimony. A witness who is unable to appear in court due to illness, old age, disability or other reasonable excuse shall be interrogated by the court at his/her place of residence (stay) A witness who has not reached the age of sixteen shall be excluded from the courtroom after the end of his/her interrogation. Written evidence, including their examination protocols, drawn up on the court order or for the provision of evidence, upon the petition of a case party shall be announced at the court hearing or presented to him/her. Material and electronic evidence shall be examined by the court or examined by it in another way, as well as presented for acquaintance to the persons involved in the case and, if necessary, to experts, specialists and witnesses. The rules of this Code shall apply to the announcement and examination of the content of personal correspondence and telegraphic messages. The court may postpone the case consideration in the events established by part 2 of article 223 of this Code. If the dispute under consideration on the merits cannot be resolved at the court hearing, a court may announce a break for the period established by this Code for consideration of the case. Witnesses shall not be interrogated and shall be summoned again only in exceptional cases subject to the court ruling. The right of a closing remark shall always belong to the defendant and his/her representative. The duration of the judicial debate shall be determined by the presiding judge, taking into account the case parties' opinions on the basis of a reasonable time for delivering speeches. The presiding judge may suspend a speaker only when he/she goes beyond the scope of the case before the court. No one shall have the right to be present in the deliberation room during the adoption of a judgment, except the judges hearing the case. The court shall make a full recording of the court hearing by means of video and (or) sound recording equipment in the manner prescribed by the Regulations on the Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System. Court hearing shall be recorded by technical means by a secretary of the court hearing. In case of non-appearance of all case parties or if under the provisions of this Code, the case is considered by the court in the absence of the parties. The case party shall have the right to receive a copy of the technical record of the trial. Comments on the technical record of the court hearing or the minutes of the hearing shall be considered no later than five days from the date of their submission. The minutes shall be signed by the presiding judge and the secretary of the case and kept in the prescribed manner together with its files. Article 250. The procedure for drawing up and executing protocols on individual procedural actions. Comments on the incompleteness or inaccuracy of the minutes of an individual procedural action shall be submitted to the court within five days from the date of its signing. The court shall deliver a ruling on the issues specified in this Article. The objective impossibility of considering this case before resolving another case, which is considered in the order of constitutional proceedings, shall not be referred to. The court shall not be allowed to suspend the proceedings in the case on the recovery of alimony on the grounds of a dispute over paternity (maternity), determination of the child's place of residence, participation of one of the parents or relatives in child's upbringing. The court shall issue a ruling on the issues specified in this Article.  Proceedings in the case shall be resumed at the request of the case parties or at the initiative of the court no later than ten days from the date of receipt by the court of the notice of elimination of the circumstances that caused its suspension. Grounds for closing case proceedings include that the case is not subject to consideration in civil proceedings or there is no subject of the dispute. The court must explain to the plaintiff about the court, whose jurisdiction is subject to consideration of the case. The court must also decide on the distribution of court costs between the parties, the return of the court fee from the state budget. Repeated appeal to the court regarding a dispute between the same parties, on the same subject and on same grounds shall not be allowed. Ukrainian law states that a person whose claim has been left without consideration, after eliminating the conditions that were the basis for leaving the application, shall have the right to apply to the court again. If a ruling to open or refuse to open proceedings, return the statement of claim or leave the claim without consideration is not adopted, the parties have concluded an agreement on the transfer of a dispute to another state. The judgments shall mean: 1) rulings; 2) judgments; 3) resolutions; 4) court orders. Consideration of the case on the merits by the court of first instance shall result in adoption of a judgment. If several interrelated independent claims are combined in one proceeding, the court may adopt a partial judgment on any claim. Full judgment (ruling) of the court may be postponed for a period not exceeding ten days. All judgments shall be set out in writing in paper and electronic forms. Judges must fill in the appropriate forms of procedural documents provided by the Regulations on the Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System. Corrections in judgments and rulings must be provided for before the judge's signature. The rulings rendered by a court outside a court hearing or at the court hearing in case of non-appearance of all case parties shall take legal effect from the moment of their signing by the judge (judges) Article 262. If the court has identified any violations of the law or deficiencies in the activities of a legal entity, state or other authorities, other persons, shall issue a separate ruling. The court of higher instance may issue a separate ruling in case the court of lower instance violates the rules of substantive or procedural law. A separate ruling on violation of the law, which contains signs of a criminal offence, shall be sent to the prosecutor. The Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court shall have the same powers over the referral of cases to the Grand Chamber. The judgment shall consist of introductory, descriptive, reasoning and operative parts. While adopting a judgment, the court may not go beyond the claims. The court may invalidate the unlawful deed in whole or in part that is related to the subject matter of the dispute if the plaintiff proves that he/she could not include the relevant claim to the statement of claim for the reasons beyond his/her control. The operative part of the judgment may also contain: 1) distribution of court costs; 2) term and procedure for entry into force; 3) full title (for legal entities) or name (for individuals) of the parties and other case participants. The conclusion of the court on the claim satisfaction may not depend on the occurrence or non-occurrence of certain circumstances. The final amount of interest (late charge) in this case shall be calculated according to the rules specified in the judgment. In case of partial satisfaction of the initial claim and counter-claims for recovery of sums of money, the court shall counter-accrue such sums and collect the difference between them. The court may correct clerical errors or arithmetic errors made in the judgment or ruling. The issue of making corrections shall be resolved without notifying the case parties, subject to adoption of the relevant ruling. In the ruling issued by the court without leaving to the deliberation room, the conclusion of the court and the reasons of such conclusion shall be announced. The court that adopted the judgment shall adopt an additional judgment within ten days from the date of receipt of the relevant application. An additional judgment shall be adopted in the same manner as the judgment. If necessary, the court may summon the parties or other case participants to a court hearing. The court shall issue a ruling on the clarification or refusal to explain the judgment, which may be appealed. The court shall send to the case parties a copy of the full judgment within two days from the date of its execution in electronic form in the manner prescribed by law. If a duplicate judgment is sent to the official e-mail address later than 5 pm, the judgment shall be considered serviced on the working day following the day of its sending. Judgement shall take legal effect after the expiration of the term for filing an appeal by all case parties, if the appeal has not been filed. A person who did not take part in the case, but in respect of whom the court has decided on his/her rights, freedoms, interests and (or) obligations, may obtain in the court that considered the case as a court of first instance, a duplicate judgment. The court will take into account: the cost of claim; the significance of the case for the parties; 3) the remedy chosen by the plaintiff; 4) category and complexity of case; 5) the amount and nature of evidence in the case; 6) the number of parties and other case parties; 7) whether the consideration of the cases is of significant public interest. The court shall consider cases by way of simplified action proceedings within a reasonable period, but not more than sixty days from the date of the opening of the proceedings. The court shall refuse to consider the case under the rules of simplifiedaction proceedings if after the court accepts the plaintiff's application to increase the size of claims or change the subject of the claim the case cannot be considered under simplified claim proceedings. Consideration of a case by way of simplified action proceedings shall be carried out by a court under the rules established by this Code. The defence shall be filed within fifteen days from the date of service of the ruling to open the case proceedings. Third parties shall have the right to submit an explanation of the claim within the period specified by the court. The first court hearing in the case shall be held no later than thirty days from day of the case proceedings opening. At the petition of a party, the court may postpone the case in order to provide additional time to file a response to the defence and (or) objection. The court may refuse to satisfy a party to consider the case at the court hearing with the notification of the parties. The form and content of the judgment in absentia shall meet the requirements set out in Articles 263 and 265 of this Code. The court shall issue a ruling on the consideration of the case in absenta. The application for the review of a judgment in Absentia shall be submitted in writing. The period for submitting an application for review of the judgement in absenti may also be renewed in case of omission. The application for the review of the judgment in absentia shall be considered within fifteen days from the date of its receipt. Non-appearance of the persons, who were duly notified of the date, time and place of the hearing shall not preclude consideration of the application. The provisions of Article 185 of this Code shall apply to an improperly executed application. Judgment in absentia can be revoked if the defendant did not appear in court and (or) did not report the reasons for non-appearance. A claim for recognition of assets as unfounded and their recovery into state revenue shall be filed and the representation of the state in court shall be carried out by the prosecutor of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. A claim shall be brought in respect of: assets acquired after the date of entry into force of the Law of Ukraine “On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine Concerning Confiscation of Illegal Assets of Persons Authorised to Perform State or Local Government Functions and Punishment for Acquisition of Such Assets”, if the difference between their value and legal income of the person authorised to perform the functions of the state or local government is more than five hundred or more times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons established by law. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the Specialised Anti- Corruption Prosecutor's Office, and in cases specified by law, shall take measures to identify unfounded assets and collect evidence of their invalidity. The assets taken into account in qualifying the act in ongoing criminal proceedings under Article 368–5 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine shall not be taken into. account in the judgment to close criminal proceedings, except for cases of its closure. The term “legal income” shall mean income lawfully received by a person from legal sources, including sources specified in clauses 7 and 8 of Article 46 of the Law of Ukraine “On Prevention of Corruption”; Article 291. The court shall recognise the assets as unfounded if the court has not established on the basis of the submitted evidence that the assets or funds necessary for the acquisition of the assets were acquired at the expense of legal income. The court shall consider in a separate proceeding a case on: 1-1) limitation of an individual's opportunity to visit gambling establishments and participate in gambling. Cases on granting the right of marriage, on dissolution of marriage upon the application of the spouses having children, on the establishment of a regime of separate residence. Cases of separate proceedings may not be referred to arbitration. Court costs shall not be reimbursed, unless otherwise provided for by law. The judgment on dissolution of marriage shall specify the choice of the surname of the spouse who changed the surname due to the state registration of the marriage subject to dissolution. The court, in the presence of sufficient data on the mental disorder of an individual, shall appoint a forensic psychiatric examination. The issue of summoning an individual in respect of whom the case of declaring him/her incompetent is being considered shall be decided in each case by a court taking into account his/her condition of health. Legal costs related to the proceedings on the recognition of an individual incapacitated or restriction of civil dispositive legal capacity shall be borne by the state. If the court finds that the applicant acted in bad faith, the court shall recover all the court costs from the applicant. Non-appearance of these persons shall not preclude consideration of the issue on the dismissal of the guardian or trustee. The period of validity of the judgment on declaring an individual incapable shall be determined by a court, but may not exceed two years. An application on limitation of an individual's opportunity to visit gambling establishments and participate in gambling shall be submitted to the court at the place of residence of such person. Court costs related to the proceedings on limitation of an individual's opportunity to visit gambling establishments and participate in gambling shall be borne by the state. Court consideration of cases on granting full civil dispositive legal capacity to a minor Article 301. Jurisdiction of a minor who is a citizen of Ukraine and resides abroad, in the cases provided for in part 1 of this Article. Court consideration of cases on recognising an individual as missing, or on declaring him/her as deceased. Jurisdiction 1. An application on recogniser of missing person must be submitted to the court at the applicant's place of residence. 2. In case of satisfaction of the declared claim, a juvenile shall be granted full civil dispositive legal capacity. The court shall send a copy of the judgment to the relevant state civil registration authority for cancellation of the death record. The application may be filed by an individual who has been declared missing or deceased, or by another interested person. An application for the adoption of a child or a full-aged individual who does not have a mother, father or has been deprived of their care shall be submitted to the court. The application for the adoption of a full-aged individual shall contain the information specified in part 1 of this Article, as well as information on the absence of the mother, father or on the deprivation of guardianship. Documents of adoptive parents who are citizens of other states must be legalised in the manner prescribed by law. Such documents shall be translated into Ukrainian, and the translation shall be certified by a notary. The court shall consider the case on adoption of a child with the obligatory participation of the applicant, the guardianship authority or the authorised executive authority. The court shall verify the legality of the grounds for adoption, including the consent of the adopted child, if such consent is required. Based on the results of consideration of the application for adoption the court shall adopt a judgment. Court consideration of cases on establishing facts of legal significance Article 315. Adoption shall be considered to be enforced from the date when the judgment enters into force. To amend the birth record of an adopted child or a full-aged individual, a copy of the judgment shall be sent to the state civil registration authority. Cases establishing the fact that a person possesses a passport, military card, ticket for membership in an association of citizens shall not be subject to judicial review in a separate proceeding. A judge shall refuse to initiate proceedings in a case if the application for establishing a fact of legal significance shows a dispute over the right. Judgment on the certification of the fact birth or death of an individual in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine defined by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine may be challenged. The appeal against the judgment shall not suspend its enforcement. A person who has lost a bearer security or a promissory note may apply to the court to declare them invalid and to restore his/her rights. The court shall rule to: 1) make a publication about the summons of the holder of the lost bearer security or promissory note to court; 2) prohibit any transactions related to it. The publication shall be made at the applicant's expense in the local newspaper at the location of the issuer of the security. The holder of a lost bearer security or promissory note must, within the prescribed period, submit to the court that issued the ruling, together with the bearer security, a statement that he/she is its holder. The period for filing a claim by the applicant against the holder may not exceed two months. If the applicant does not file a claim within the period established by the court, the court shall issue a ruling to lift the prohibition against any transactions related to bearer security. Holder of a bearer security or promissory note may file a claim against the person who has been authorised to possess it. Court consideration of cases on transfer of immovable property in abeyance into municipal ownership Article 329. Jurisdiction of application for the transfer of the property to a territorial community under the conditions specified by the Civil Code. Application on recognition of the inheritance as escheat property in cases established by the Civil Code of Ukraine shall be submitted to the court. Court shall refuse to accept an application if the application is filed before the expiration of one year since the inheritance was opened. Court consideration of a case shall be considered by the court with the obligatory participation of the applicant. Under the conditions specified in the Law of Ukraine “On psychiatric care”, the application of a psychiatrist to conduct a psychiatric examination of a person compulsorily, to provide a person with outpatient psychiatric care and its compulsory extension shall be submitted to the court at the person's place of residence. An application for compulsory psychiatric care shall be considered by a court within the following periods from the date of its receipt. The case upon the application for compulsory psychiatric care or termination of outpatient psychiatric care, compulsory hospitalisation shall be considered in the presence of the person in respect of whom the issue is being resolved. The person may participate in the proceedings by videoconference from the psychiatric care facility where he/she stays. The application shall be submitted within 24 hours from the time of detection of a violation of the antiepidemic regime by patients with a contagious form of tuberculosis. A person should be given the right to participate in person in the court, unless, according to the antituberculosis institution, such a person poses a threat of spreading the disease. The application to the court on the disclosure by bank of information containing banking secrecy of a legal entity or an individual shall state: name of the court where the application is filed. The non-appearance at the court hearing without reasonable excuses of the applicant and (or) the person in respect of whom the disclosure of banking secrecy is required shall not impede consideration of the case. An application for issuance of a restraining order may be filed: 1) by a person who has suffered from domestic violence, or his/her representative, in cases specified by the Law of Ukraine “On Prevention and Counteraction to Domestic Violence’; 2) by someone who has been the victim of gender-based violence. 3) by parents and other legal representatives of the child. The application on issuance of a restraining order shall state: 1) name of the court where the application is filed; 2) name (surname, name and patronymic) of the applicant and the interested person, their place of residence or stay, postal code, known contact details and e-mail addresses. If it is impossible to provide the evidence specified in clause 3 of part 1 of this Article, a petition on requesting thereof may be attached to the application. The court shall consider the case on the issuance of a restraining order not later than 72 hours after the receipt of the application. The non-appearance of duly notified interested parties shall not preclude consideration of the case. The court costs related to the proceedings shall be borne by the state. The restraining order may be extended by the court for a period not exceeding six months after the expiration of the period established by a judgment. The court shall notify the authorised divisions of the National Police of Ukraine at the place of residence (stay) of the applicant. Appeals against court rulings not provided for in Article 353 of this Code shall not be allowed separately from a judgment. The Supreme Court shall review through the appeal procedure the judgments adopted by the courts of appeal. Separately from a judgment, the following rulings of the court of first instance may be appealed. Rulings include those on the provision of evidence, refusal to provide evidence or revocation of the ruling on Provision of evidence. Ruling on transfer of the case to another court may also be appealed, as well as the amount of court costs. An appeal against a judgment shall be filed within thirty days. Objections to the rulings that are not subject to appeal shall be included in the appeal against the judgment. A case party who has not been served with a full judgment or ruling on the day of its pronouncement or execution, shall have the right to renew the period for appeal. Full title (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic) (for individuals) of the person filing the appeal. Postal code, identification code of the legal entity in the Unified State Register of Enterprises and Organisations of Ukraine. Taxpayer identification number ( for individuals) (if any) or passport number and series for individuals. contact details and e-mail address. An appeal shall be registered on the day of its receipt by the appellate court and not later than the next day shall be transferred to the judge-rapporteur determined under the procedure established by Article 33 of this Code. If the appeal is filed by a person exempted from paying court fees under the law, it shall indicate the grounds for exemption from payment of court fees. The court of appeal shall refuse to open appellate proceedings in a case if: 1) an appeal is filed against a judgment that is not subject to appeal; 2) there is a ruling to close the proceedings due to rejection of the previously filed appeal of the same person against the same judgement; 3) the appeal has not been filed after the expiration of one year from the date when the full text of a judgment has been executed. The issue on the opening of appellate proceedings in the case shall be resolved no later than five days from the date of receipt of the appeal or application for the elimination of deficiencies. The ruling to open appeal proceedings shall specify the period for the parties to file a defence to the appeal and resolve the issue of requesting the case-file. The court of appeal shall issue a ruling on the closure of the appellate proceedings, which may be appealed in cassation procedure. The case parties shall have the right to join the appeal lodged by the person by whose side they acted. If the appeal is rejected, and if other persons who joined the appeal do not have objections, the court shallissue a ruling to close the appeal proceedings. In case of closing the appellate proceedings due to the refuse to file an appeal against the judgment, the re-appeal of this judgment by the person who refused to file the appeal shall not be allowed. If during the case-file study the court finds unconsidered remarks on the correctness and completeness of the trial by technical means, the court shall issue a ruling with a time-limit for the court of first instance to eliminate deficiencies. The court of appeal shall examine the evidence concerning the facts to which the case parties refer in the appeal and (or) the defence to it. If the arguments of the appeal ignore the obvious illegality or irrelevance of the judgment adopted by the court of first instance in cases of independent proceedings, the appellate court shall reconsider the case in full. Appeals against court rulings referred to in clauses 1, 5, 6, 9, 10, 14, 19, 37–40 of Article 353 of this Code shall be considered by the appellate court without notifying the case parties. Appeals against judgments in cases with a claim value less than one hundred times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons. The court of appeal shall consider the appeal referred to in Part 1 of this Article within the scope of arguments that were not considered during the appellate case consideration upon the appeal of another person. An appeal against a judgment adopted by a court of first instance shall be considered within sixty days from the date of ruling to open appellate proceedings. The court of appeal has the right to leave the judgment unchanged and dismiss the appeal. It can also revoke the judgment in whole or in part and adopt a new judgment in the relevant part or change the judgment. If the statement of waiver or settlement agreement of the parties meets the requirements of Articles 206, 207 of this Code, the court shall issue a ruling to accept the plaintiff's waiver or to approve the settlement agreement. Grounds for revocation of a judgment include violation of procedural law or incorrect application of substantive law. A change in a judgment may consist in supplementing or changing its reasoning and (or) operative parts. The judgment adopted by the court of the first instance as a result of consideration of the case, shall be revoked under the appellate procedure. The death of an individual who is a party to the dispute or termination of a legal entity which does not allow succession may not be grounds for applying Part 1 of this Article. If the appellate court closes the proceedings by virtue of clause 1 of part 1 of Article 255 of this Code, the court on the plaintiff's application under written proceedings shall decide to transfer the case. The appellate court based on the results of the appeal consideration shall adopt a judgment according to the rules of Article 35 and chapter 9 of section III of this Code. The resolution or ruling of the appellate court shall be executed by the judge-rapporteur and signed by all judges who considered the case. The resolution of the court of appeal may be appealed under cassation procedure in the cases provided for by this Code. The Supreme Court shall be the cassation court in consideration of civil cases. The case parties, as well as persons who did not participate in the case, if the court has decided on their rights, freedoms, interests and (or) obligations, shall have the right to appeal. The grounds for cassation appeal of the court judgments referred to in clause 1 of part 1 of this Article shall be the incorrect application by the court of substantive law or violation of procedural law only in the following cases. The following shall not be subject to appeal: 1) judgments, rulings of theCourt of first instance and resolutions; 2) rulings of appeal in cases in which judgments are subject to review under appellate procedure by the Supreme Court. A person who files a cassation appeal, under this Code, is deprived of the opportunity to refute the circumstances established by the appealed judgment when considering another case. A person who did not participate in the case, if the court has decided on his/her rights, freedoms, interests and (or) obligations, shall have the right to file a appeal against the judgment only after its review. The cassation appeal shall be filed in written form. The appeal shall contain the name of the court where it is filed. It shall also contain the judgment of the Supreme Court, containing conclusion on rule of law applied in such legal relations, which was not taken into account in the appealed judgment. A cassation appeal shall be registered on the day of its receipt by the cassation court and not later than the next day shall be transferred to the judge-rapporteur determined under the procedure established by Article 33 of this Code. The following shall be attached to the appeal: duplicates of the appeal and other attached materials relevant to the number of case parties. The court of cassation shall decide on the return of the cassation appeal within twenty days from the date of receipt of the appeal. A duplicate ruling to return the appeal shall be sent to the appellant together with the materials attached to the appeal, and the cassated appeal shall remain in the court. The court shall refuse to open cassation proceedings if the appeal does not set out the grounds provided for by this Code. The cassation court shall refuse to open appeal proceedings if the cassation appeal is filed after the expiration of one year from the date when the full text of a judgment has been executed. In case of appeal against the ruling (unless the ruling resulting from the case consideration) the court may refuse to initiate cassation proceedings. Case parties have the right to submit a defence to the cassation appeal in writing within the period established by the court of cassation in the ruling to open cassation proceedings. A duplicate ruling to refuse to open proceedings together with the materials attached to the appeal shall be sent to the person who filed the appeal. Case parties have the right to join the cassation appeal lodged by the person by whose side they acted. The court of cassation shall issue a ruling to close the proceedings. An application for joining a cassated appeal may be filed before the beginning of consideration of the case. A person who has filed a cassation appeal shall have the right to supplement or change it within the period for cassation Appeal. The person who filed the appeal shall submit evidence of sending duplicates of the relevant supplement to other case parties. The court shall issue a ruling to close the cassation proceedings if other persons who joined the appeal do not have objections. Preliminary consideration of the case shall be conducted within five days after the judge-rapporteur has drawn the report. The court shall not be limited to the arguments and requirements of the cassation appeal, if during consideration a violation of procedure law has been detected. If the grounds under parts 3 and 4 of this Article are not applicable, theCassation court shall assign the case for consideration. The parties and other case participants shall give their explanations. If the judgment is appealed by both parties, the plaintiff shall be the first to give explanations. The judge-rapporteur shall report to the necessary extent the content of the appealed judgment. If necessary, a break may be announced during the consideration of the case. The case shall be referred to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court if a case party lodges an appeal against the judgment on the grounds of violation of the rules of subject-matter or personal jurisdiction. A court which considers a case under cassation procedure before a panel of judges, a chamber or a joint chamber shall refer the case if it concludes that the case contains an exclusive legal problem. The court shall adopt a ruling on referring a case for consideration to a chamber, a joint chamber, or the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court. The court shall state the reasons for the need to derogate from the conclusion on the application of the rule of law in such legal relations. The court of cassation may revoke the previously adopted ruling and judgments under appeal. Appeals against rulings that are not subject to appeal separately from the judgment adopted by the court of first instance or the resolution of the appeal shall be included in the cassation appeal against the relevant judgment or resolution. A cassation appeal against judgment provided for in clause 1 of part 1 of Article 389 of this Code shall be considered within sixty days. The court of cassation shall have the right: 1) to leave the judgments of the courts of first instance and courts of appeal unchanged, and to dismiss the appeal. A substantively correct and lawful judgment cannot be revoked for formal reasons alone. A case party who filed the cassation appeal did not declare non-jurisdiction during the consideration of the case by the court of first instance. The court has adopted a judgment regarding the rights, freedoms, interests and (or) obligations of persons who were not involved in the case. Court may revoke a judgment in whole or in part and adopt a new judgment in the relevant part or amend it. Grounds for revocation of judgments of the court of first instance and court of appeal and referral of the case for further consideration shall be violations of substantive or procedural law, which led to the wrongful ruling. The cassation court shall revoke the resolution adopted by the appellate court in whole or in part. Violation of the rules of the general court's jurisdiction, defined in Articles 19–22 of this Code, shall be a mandatory ground for revocation. The death of an individual or termination of a legal entity that does not allow succession, after adoption of the judgment, cannot be grounds for applying Part 1 of this Article. Ruling of the court of cassation instance consists of introduction, reasoning, summary and operative part. Resolution or ruling of the cassation shall be executed by the judge-rapporteur and signed by all judges who considered the case, unless otherwise provided for by this Code. Ruling includes summary of claims and judgments of the courts of first instance and (or) court of appeal. The court of cassation may adopt a separate ruling in certain cases. The resolution of a chamber, a joint chamber, the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court shall contain a conclusion on how exactly the rule of law shall be applied. The instructions contained in the resolution of the cassation court shall be binding upon the court of first instance and the appellate court. Court of first instance must return cases to court of cassation within 15 days. Duplicate judgments adopted by the cassation courts shall be reissued by the court that considered the case. Review of judgments on newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances may be carried out. Reasons for review include the fact of providing a knowingly incorrect expert conclusion. The court may not go beyond the claims that were the subject of consideration when adopting the judgment under review, consider other claims or other grounds of the claim. An application for the review of a judgment due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances may be filed within thirty days from the date when the person became aware or could become aware about the existence of circumstances. An application for review of a judgment adopted by the court of the first instance on the grounds specified in part 2, clauses 1, 3 of Article 423 of this Code shall be submitted to the court that adopted the judgment. The periods specified in Part 2 of this Article may not be renewed. The application shall indicate: 1) name of the court where the application is addressed, name of person submitting the application, place of residence or location. An application for review of a judgment due to newly discovered or exceptional circumstances, received by a court, shall be submitted to a judge or a panel of judges. A court fee shall not be recovered for filing and consideration of an application for Review of a Court Judgment due to exceptional circumstances. The judge (judge-rapporteur) shall verify its compliance with the requirements of Article 426. An application for review of a judgment due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances shall be considered by the court in a court hearing within thirty days from the day of opening the proceedings. A person who has waived of an application forreview of a judgement due to new circumstances may not re-apply to the court with the same application on the same grounds. A judgment adopted by virtue of the reviewed judgment due to newly-discovered or exceptional circumstances may be reviewed on general grounds. Other judgments adopted by other courts shall cease to be effective after the newly adopted judgment has entered into force. The court shall allow immediate enforcement of judgments in cases on: recovery of alimony, within the amount of payment for one month. The basis for the entity of state registration of legal entities, individual entrepreneurs and public associations of the judgment that has come into legal force, shall be its duplicate in the electronic form sent to the entity. A writ of enforcement, a court order, and a judgment in the cases established by this Code,. shall be the enforcement documents. If the judgment has been adopted in favour of several plaintiffs or against several defendants, or if enforcement should be carried out in different places. Court that issued the enforcement document may, at the request of the recoverer or the debtor, correct the error made in its execution or issuance. Regulation on the Unified State Register of Enforcement Documents shall be approved by a joint regulatory act of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine. The court shall issue a ruling on the correction of an error in the enforcement document and its recognition as unenforceable. If the recovery under such an enforcement document has already taken place in full or in part, the court shall concurrently while resolving these issues at the request of the debtor collect in his/her favour unreasonably received recovery. The court that considered the case as a court of first instance may postpone the enforcement of a judgment or extend the period of its enforcement. At the request of the recoverer or executor (in cases established by law), the court may determine or change the method or procedure. The court shall also take into account the degree of guilt of the defendant in the dispute. The issue on temporary placement of a child in a children's or medical care facility shall be decided by a court upon recommendation of the state executor. The court shall consider this issue within ten days at the court hearing with the summons of the parties and with the obligatory participation of the guardianship authorities' representatives. The court that considered the case as a court of first instance may apply the foreclosure on the money belonging to the person owing to a debtor. At the recoverer's request the court may seize money in accounts (deposits) or in custody in banks or other financial institutions. The application shall be considered by the court within ten days from the date of its receipt. Temporary restriction of an individual's right to leave Ukraine may be applied by a court as a measure to ensure the enforcement of a judgment or a decision of other authorities (officials), which is subject to enforcement in the manner prescribed by law. The issues of foreclosure on the immovable property of the debtor, the ownership of which is not registered, shall be resolved by the court upon the recommendation of state executor, private executor. The court of appeal or court of cassation shall decide on the reversal of enforcement. The non-appearance of the parties and other persons shall not preclude resolution of the issue on replacing a party to the enforcement proceedings. The issue on determining the share of the debtor's property in the property he/she owns together with other persons will be resolved by the court. The court shall decide on the reversal of enforcement, if by virtue of the reviewed judgment it: 1) closes the proceedings in the case; 2) leaves the claim without consideration; 3) dismisses the claim in full; 4) satisfies the claims to a lesser extent. If the arbitral award is revoked, the debtor shall be returned all that has been recovered. The parties to enforcement proceedings shall have the right to appeal to the court if they believe that the judgment, action or omission of a state executor or other official during the judgment enforcement under this Code violates their rights or freedoms. The appeal may be filed within ten days from the day when a person learned or should have learned about the violation of his/her right or freedom. The court will consider the appeal of a person whose decision, action or omission is being appealed. Non-appearance of the recoverer, debtor, state executor or any other official of the body of the state executive service, private executor shall not preclude its consideration. The court costs related to the appeal consideration shall be borne by the applicant. The international commercial arbitral award may be challenged in the manner prescribed by this section, if the place of arbitration is located in Ukraine. An application on revocation of an arbitral. award shall be filed within ninety days: by a party, a. third party in a case considered by the arbitration court, from the date when the arbitral Award. is adopted; and by the persons who did not participate in the case. Full title (for legal entities) or name (surname, name and patronymic for individuals) of the applicant. Contact details, official e-mail addresses and e-mails addresses (if any) for the parties. Information on the arbitral award, international commercial arbitration court, which is appealed (challenged), namely: case number, date and place of the award. The court may request from the arbitration court or international commercial arbitration court for the necessary case-file concerning the grounds for revocation of the arbitral award. The documents referred to in clauses 1, 2 of part 4 of this Article may be submitted as duplicates, but the applicant shall submit such documents to the court before consideration of the application. The cases on appealing the arbitral awards, international commercial arbitral Awards shall be considered by the judge alone within thirty days from the date of receipt by the court of the application. Non-appearance of the persons duly notified of the date, time and place of the hearing, shall not impede the consideration of the case. The court shall adopt a ruling on a joint consideration of such applications and combining them into one proceeding. Revocation by a court of the arbitral award shall not deprive a party of the right to re-apply to the arbitration court, unless otherwise provided for by law. The international commercial arbitral award may be revoked by a court only in the cases provided for in this Article unless otherwise provided by an international treaty. The party who filed the application for revocation provides evidence that: a) a party to the arbitration agreement was under some incapacity; or the said agreement is null and void under the law to which the parties have subjected it. Court ruling to revoke the arbitral award or to refuse to revoke it may be appealed under the appellate procedure provided for the appeal of judgments. Appealing of the rulings adopted by international commercial arbitration courts as to their relevant competence, rendered from the preliminary issue if the place of arbitration is located in Ukraine. Conditions for recognition and enforcement of the foreign court judgment subject to compulsory enforcement. Foreign court judgment may be presented to compulsory enforcement in Ukraine within three years from the date of its entry into force. The issue on granting permission on compulsory enforcement of a foreign court judgment shall be considered by the court at the place of residence (stay) or location of the debtor. The petition on granting permission on compulsory enforcement of a foreign court judgment shall be accompanied by documents provided for by international treaties. If the international treaties, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, do not specify the list of documents to be attached to the petition, or if such a treaty is absent, the petition shall be returned to the person who filed it. The petition on granting permission on compulsory enforcement of a foreign court judgment shall be considered by a single judge at the open court hearing. The judge shall adopt a ruling specifying the date, time and place of consideration of the petition, with the parties to be notified in written form of it, not later than ten days before the consideration. Failure to appear without reasonable grounds at the hearing of any of the parties or their representatives shall not preclude the consideration of a petition. If the party in respect of whom the foreign court judgment was adopted, has been deprived of the opportunity to participate in the judicial proceedings due to the fact that he/she was not duly and timely notified of the trial. If the subject-matter of the dispute under the laws of Ukraine is not subject to judicial review. The foreign court judgment that is not subject to compulsory enforcement shall be recognised in Ukraine if its recognition is provided for by international treaties, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, or on the principle of reciprocity. The following documents shall be attached to the petition: a duly certified duplicate of the foreign court. judgment subject to petition on its recognition; an official document that the foreign. court judgment has entered into force, if it is not specified in the judgment. The international commercial arbitral award (if it is outside Ukraine), regardless of the country where it was adopted, shall be recognised and enforced in Ukraine, if such recognition and enforcement is provided for by an international treaty, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or on the principle of reciprocity. The issue on recognition and granting permission on enforcement of an international commercial Arbitral award shall be considered by the court upon the application of the recoverer under this chapter. Application on recognition and granting permission on enforcement of an international commercial arbitral award shall be submitted to the court of appeal, whose jurisdiction extends to the city of Kyiv, within three years from the date when the award has been adopted. The application submitted after the expiration of the period determined by part 3 of this Article shall be returned without consideration. An application on recognition and granting permission on enforcement of an international commercial arbitral award shall be considered by a judge sitting alone within two months from the date of its receipt by the court. Non-appearance of parties or one of the parties, duly notified of the date, time and place of the trial, shall not preclude the consideration of the application. The court may refuse to recognise and grant permission on enforcement of an international commercial arbitral award if: 1) at the request of the party against whom it is directed, if that party submits to the court evidence that: a) the party to the arbitration agreement was under some incapacity; or the said agreement is null and void. Court ruling on recognition and granting permission on enforcement of an international commercial arbitral award or on dismissal to recognise and grant permission onenforcement. Article 479. b) the recognition or enforcement of the award is contrary to the public policy of Ukraine. The court ruling shall also specify: 1) name and composition of the international commercial arbitration court that made the award. An application may be filed regarding the voluntary enforcement of an international commercial arbitral award on recovery of money only in full. The court ruling on recognition and granting permission on voluntary enforcement or on dismissal to recognise and enforce the award may be appealed by the parties. The writ of enforcement shall be entered into the Unified State Register of Enforcement Documents. International commercial arbitral awards not subject to compulsory enforcement to be recognised. Court may suspend proceedings in the case regarding the application on recognition and granting permission on enforcement of an international commercial Arbitral award, if the place of arbitration is in Ukraine. Ruling shall take legal effect after consideration of the case by the appellate court. The general provisions provided for in Articles 454 and 455 of this Code shall apply to the application on the revocation of the international commercial arbitral award. Chapter 4. Proceedings in cases on granting permission on compulsory enforcement of the arbitral awards Article 483. Issuance of a writ of enforcement for the Arbitral award compulsory enforcement. The application on the issuance of a writ of enforcement for the arbitral award compulsory enforcement shall be considered by the judge sitting alone within fifteen days from the date of its receipt at the court hearing with notification of the parties. The provisions of Article 185 of this Code shall apply to the application. filed in violation of the requirements specified in this Article, as well as in case of non-payment of the court fee. The court shall establish the presence or absence of grounds for a refusal to issue a writ of enforcement for the arbitral award compulsory enforcement provided for in Article 486 of this Code. Any party to the arbitration proceedings in a due manner and period shall have the right to apply to the court to revoke this award and request to consider it together with the application on granting permission to enforce this award. If the case subject to the arbitral award is not within the jurisdiction of the arbitration court according to the law, then the award may be revoked. The court ruling on refusal to issue a writ of enforcement may be appealed by the parties in the appellate procedure determined for appealing the judgments of the court of first instance. Lost civil judicial proceedings may be restored at the request of a case party or on the initiative of the court. An application for restoration of the lost judicial proceedings shall be submitted to the court which considered the case as a court of first instance. The application shall contain the following: for the resumption of which judicial proceedings or what part of it the applicant requests, and contact details of trial participants. Application for restoration of the lost judicial proceedings must be accompanied by documents or copies thereof (even if they are not duly certified) kept by the applicant or in the case, duplicates of the application relevant to the number of case parties. The court may renew this period if, at the request of the applicant, it finds the grounds for its omission reasonable. An application for restoration to enforce a judgement may be filed before the period for presentation of the writ of enforcement for enforcement expires. The court ruling on opening of the proceedings in a new case due to the loss of unfinished proceedings shall stipulate this fact. When considering an application for restoration of the lost judicial proceedings, the court shall take into account the part of the case that has survived. The court may interrogate witnesses of the persons who were present during the proceedings, participants in the case (their representatives), and if necessary, the persons. The court ruling on restoration of the lost judicial proceedings shall stipulate the certain data filed to the court and considered at the court hearing. In the case of submission of a knowingly false application, the court costs incurred by other case parties shall be reimbursed by the applicant in full, subject to execution of a ruling by the court. If in the course of consideration of a case in court it is necessary to serve documents, obtain evidence, conduct certain procedural actions on the territory of another state, the court of Ukraine may apply to a foreign court. The court order for the provision of legal aid shall be executed in Ukrainian. A certified translation into the official language of an appropriate state shall be attached to the court order. The courts of Ukraine shall enforce the orders of foreign courts for the provision of legal aid concerning serving of court summons or other documents. If it is not possible to enforce the order of a foreign court, the court of Ukraine in the manner prescribed by an international treaty, ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. Foreign court order as to the serving of a court summons or other documents shall be enforced within the court hearing or by the authorised court officer at the place of residence (stay, place of work) of an individual. A person who is to be serviced the court summons on behalf of a foreign court is in custody or is serving a sentence of life imprisonment. A court order for serving documents to a citizen of Ukraine, who lives on the territory of a foreign state, may be enforced by the officers of diplomatic mission or consular post of Ukraine in the relevant state. The documents shall be served against a receipt with a notice as to the date of receipt, and shall be signed by the official and certified by a seal of the relevant foreign diplomatic institution. Part 2 of Article 172 (in part of sending a duplicate court order containing information about the web address of the court order in the Unified State Register of Enforcement Documents) shall come into force 30 days after the publication by the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine of the announcement on the Holos Ukrainy newspaper. Parts 10, 11 of Article 265, parts 4, 5 of Article 479 of this Code shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. A civil case upon the application for review of judgments by the Supreme Court of Ukraine under the rules effective before this version of the Code entered into force, is to be considered at a joint hearing of the relevant chambers. A court considering a case under cassation procedure as a member of a panel of judges or a chamber (joint chamber) shall refer the case to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme court if such a panel or chamber deems it necessary. If the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court concludes that there are no grounds for referring the case, the case shall be returned (transferred) to the relevant panel of judges or the chamber (joint chamber) subject to adoption of a ruling. Cases in the courts of first instance and and appellate instances, where the proceedings were opened before this version of the Code entered into force, shall be considered according to the rules. Judges adopted by courts of first instance before this version of the Code enters into force shall become effective and may be appealed under cassation procedure. The Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System starts functioning on the day when the Code comes into force. submission, registration, sending of procedural and other documents, evidence, formation, storage and sending of case-file shall be carried out in paper form. Participation in a court hearing by videoconference within the court premises shall be carried out with the help of technical means operating in the courts as of the day when this version of the Code entered into force. 15.7) the recording of the trial shall be done using sound recording equipment. The Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System shall start functioning 90 days after the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine publishes the announcement. In other cases, duplicate files necessary for the appeal consideration shall be sent to the court of appeal or court of cassation. The duplicate court rulings shall be issued by the court where the case is kept. The court considering the case as a court of first instance has the right to request for the enforcement document and to suspend enforcement under the document. In case of loss of enforcement document, the court that considered the case may issue a duplicate. A court fee in the amount of 0.03 times the subsistence level for able-bodied persons shall be charged for the issuance of a duplicate enforcement document. The court has jurisdiction under the requirements of procedural law if the court is located in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine or in the Anti-Terrorist Operation Zone. The restoration of lost the proceedings shall be carried out by a court with territorial jurisdiction of the court cases determined under the Law of Ukraine.