The criminal executive legislation of Ukraine shall regulate the procedure and conditions for executing and serving criminal sentences. The aim is to protect the interests of an individual, society and the state by creating conditions for the correction and re-socialisation of convicts, preventing the re-offending by both convicts and other persons. Convict reformation shall mean the process of positive changes that take place in their personality and prepare them for self-governed, law-abiding behaviour. Re-socialisation shall mean conscious restoration of a convict to the social status of a full-fledged member of the society. Unified Register of Persons Convicted for Offences against Sexual Freedom and Sexual Integrity of Juveniles. The register shall include information on the surname, name, patronymic of a convict, date of birth, place of residence or stay, a criminal offence for which they were convicted, type of criminal sentence imposed on them, and on violation of the rules for administrative supervision. Information on a person shall be removed from the register in the event a court judgement of conviction or a court ruling referred to in part 5 of this Article has been quashed. Convicts shall enjoy all the human and citizen rights provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. Discrimination against convicts on the grounds of race, skin colour, political, religious and other beliefs, sex, ethnic and social origin, place of residence, linguistic or other characteristics shall be prohibited. Convicts shall have the right to be informed of their rights and duties. Convicts shall have a safeguarded right to freely choose and admit a physician to receive medical care, including at their own expense. Convicts with mental and behavioural disorders caused by the use of alcohol, narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances or their analogues or other intoxicating substances may, with their written consent, be treated for these disorders. Convicted foreigners have the right to communicate with the diplomatic representation agencies and consular institutions of their states. Convicts to whom the court has applied probation shall enjoy the rights defined by this Code and the Law of Ukraine “On Probation” The head of the administration of a penitentiary institution shall be personally responsible for the accommodation of convicts. Convicts have the right to apply to any official of the penitentiary authority or institution for their personal security. In this case, the official shall be obliged to take immediate actions to ensure the personal security of the convict. Penitentiary authorities shall include the central executive authority implementing the state penal and probation policy. Within the framework defined by this Code and the laws of Ukraine, the state executive service bodies, military units, military detention facilities and disciplinary battalion shall also execute criminal sentences. Territorial administration bodies, authorised bodies for probation, detention facilities, correctional centres, correctional facilities and juvenile correctional facilities, pretrial detention facilities. Convicts sentenced to imprisonment shall serve their sentences in minimum-security correctional facilities with less restrictive conditions. Disciplinary battalion shall execute the sentences of detention in a disciplinary battalion of convicted compulsory-duty service persons, service persons who perform military service under contract, members of the officer personnel who perform career military service. Convicts with a disease that poses a threat to the health of others and who has not undergone a full course of treatment shall be treated by the penitentiary authorities. Persons suffering from tuberculosis shall be detained in separate quarters from other inmates. Juvenile correctional facilities shall execute sentences of imprisonment for a determined period in relation to convicted minors. The prosecutor shall supervise the observance of laws in the penitentiary authorities and institutions in the execution of court judgements in criminal cases. The right to unimpeded visits toPenitentiary institutions for the purposes of control and inspection at any time without special permission (accreditation) shall be granted to the President of Ukraine. Members of Parliament of Ukraine, their assistant consultants, members of the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and councillors of local councils may visit penitentiary institutions under special permission granted by the administration of these institutions. Specially authorised representatives (except for representatives of the Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights) shall exercise their powers on a pro bono basis. The persons referred to in part 1 of this Article shall have the right, without time restrictions, with maximum assistance from the staff and administration of penitentiaries. The regime in penitentiary institutions shall not hinder or be used as a hindrance for the control entities to exercise their powers. No more than 10 persons referred to in part 1 of this Article, including medical personnel (those accompanying) and representatives of the mass media, are allowed to stay in the samepenitentiary institution at the same time. If a fine is imposed by instalments, a convict shall be obliged to pay the fine in the amount and within the period set in the court sentence. The convict shall notify the criminal executive inspectorate at the place of residence of the payment of the relevant instalment of the fine. The execution of a sentence of deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities shall be entrusted to the authorised probation authorities. The authority or official shall, within one month after a copy of the sentence has been received, inform the court, which ruled the sentence, about its execution. The owner of an enterprise, institution, organisation or its authorised body at the place of employment of convicts sentenced to the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities. control the compliance with the requirements of a court judgement by the owner of the enterprise. Take actions to stop violations of court judgements; take priority actions to detect convicts whose whereabouts are unknown; appeal to the relevant law enforcement agencies for detecting convicts. A convict sentenced to the deprivation of the right to hold certain posts or to engage in certain activities shall be obliged to execute the court judgement. A sentence of community services shall be executed based on the convicts’ participation in socially useful works and the control over their behaviour under the requirements of this Code. Control over the execution of sentences of community service shall be entrusted to an authorised probation body. Convicts sentenced to community services must comply with the statutory procedure and conditions for serving a sentence. They must conscientiously perform their work; work at the facility assigned to them and serve the period of community service established by the court. The owner of an enterprise, institution, organisation or its authorised body at the place where a convict serves their sentence of community services shall be responsible for agreeing with the authorised probation authority the list of facilities. The authorised probation authority may apply a warning in the form of a written notice of prosecution to convicts for violation of the procedure and conditions for serving a sentence of community service. A convict sentenced to community service who is wanted in connection with the evasion from a sentence shall be detained and escorted by the National Police. The sentences of correctional labour shall be served at an enterprise, institution, organisation irrespective of the form of ownership at the convict’s place of employment. A court judgment shall be executed no later than ten days from the date it becomes legally effective or enforceable. Convicts sentenced to correctional labour must comply with the statutory procedure and conditions for serving a sentence. The period of a sentence of correctional labour shall be calculated in years, months and days during which a convict worked, and deductions were made from their earnings. The number of days worked by a convict shall be at least the number of business days for each month of the sentence imposed by the court. The convicts shall be prohibited from leaving Ukraine without the approval of the authorised probation authority. The owner of an enterprise, institution, organisation or its authorised body at the place where a convict serves their sentence of correctional labour shall be responsible for monthly deducting the part of the wage as determined by the court judgement. The period of serving a sentence shall not count the period of illness caused by alcohol, narcotic intoxication or the influence of drugs or other toxic substances. The owner of an enterprise, institution, organisation or its authorised body may apply incentives and penalties provided for by the labour legislation to convicts sentenced to correctional labour. Deductions shall be made from the entire amount of earnings, without excluding taxes and other payments from this amount and regardless of any claims against the convict. The court, which has sentenced a service person to service restriction, shall send a copy of the sentence to the commander of the military unit where the convicted service person is serving after the sentence has become legally effective. A convict sentenced to correctional labour who is wanted in connection with the evasion from a sentence shall be detained and escorted by the National Police authority. The property owned by a convict shall be subject to confiscation. Property belonging to the convict under the right of private ownership or being their share in common property, necessary for the convict and their dependents, shall not be subject. Disputes related to the confiscation of property shall be resolved under the procedure established by law. Convicts may be involved in works, without payment for labour, on the improvement of detention facilities. Convicts sentenced to arrest may be reprimanded or placed in a punishment cell for up to ten days if they violate the procedure for serving their sentence of arrest. Material and welfare support and medical care in detention facilities shall be carried out by the penitentiary authorities. Convicted service persons sentenced to arrest shall serve their sentences in a military detention facility. While serving an arrest, a convicted service person may not be presented for the assignment of the next military rank, appointed to a higher position, transferred to a new place of service, or dismissed from military service. The right to apply an incentive in the form of counting the period of serving the arrest towards the total period of military service shall be exercised by the head of the Military Law Enforcement Service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Convicts sentenced to restriction of freedom shall serve their sentences in correctional centres, as a rule, within the administrative and territorial unit. Convicts may be transferred for serving their sentence further from one correctional centre to another in order to accommodate the convict at the place of residence of their members of the immediate family. The time spent in pre-trial detention in custody, as well as the time of committing in custody to the correctional centre, shall count towards the period of the sentence. All convicts newly arrived at the correctional centre shall be held in separate rooms, where they shall undergo a medical examination to detect infectious and other diseases. Convicts sentenced to restriction of freedom shall have the right to: wear civilian clothes, have portable personal computers and their accessories, money, mobile phones and valuables. If items, objects and substances are found in the possession of a convict, they shall be confiscated and stored before the convict’s release, and those seized from circulation shall be destroyed. Convicts serving a sentence of restriction of freedom and premises wherein they reside may be searched, and their belongings, parcels, packages and postal wrappers may be inspected. Work of convicts sentenced to restriction of freedom shall be regulated by labour legislation, except for the rules on admission to employment, dismissal and transfer to another job. Convicts regardless of all deductions shall be paid at least seventy-five per cent of total earnings, and convicts who are in arrears on writs of execution – at least fifty per cent. Compulsory state social insurance and pension provision. The costs of detention in penitentiary institutions shall be reimbursed from the pensions of convicts sentenced to restriction of freedom under the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At least fifty per cent of the pension shall be credited by the institution at the place of serving a sentence to the personal account of a convict. Convicts in correctional centres shall be provided with individual beds, accessories and bedding. Food, clothing, footwear, underwear and basic necessities shall be purchased at their own expense. The minimum living space allowance per convict shall be four square metres. Convicts not working due to illness or for reasons beyond their control shall beprovided with food and utilities at the expense of the correctional centre. Convicts who have embarked on the path of reformation or have proved their reformation through conscientious behaviour and attitude to work may, under the procedure established by law, be proposed to have the unserved portion of their sentence commuted or to release on parole from serving their sentence. Penalties applicable to convicts sentenced to restriction of freedom. The right to apply incentives and penalties provided for in Articles 67 and 68 of this Code shall be exercised in full by the head of the correctional centre, as well as their direct superiors. If the convict is not subjected to a new penalty within six months of serving the penalty, they shall be deemed to have no penalty. Convicted service persons shall be subject to the provisions of this Code on socially useful work, social and educational work, general education and vocational training, and public influence. Military exercises shall also be conducted with convicts. While serving their sentence in a disciplinary battalion, all the convicted service persons, regardless of their military rank and the nature of their previous service, shall be as soldiers. Convicted service persons shall be allowed to send and receive letters and telegrams without limitation of their number. Letters received shall be handed in by a representative of the disciplinary battalion, in the presence of whom the convicted service person shall be obliged to open them. Illegal attachments detected herewith shall be are seized. Convicted service persons shall be involved in work at enterprises, institutions and organisations that belong to the sphere of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine. Firearms, bladed weapons, ammunition, poisonous substances, drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues or precursors and other items withdrawn from civilian circulation shall be confiscated and not returned to the convicted service person. Convicted service persons may be rewarded for their conscientious behaviour and attitude to work and military service by the following incentives: commendation; early discharge of a previously imposed disciplinary penalty; granting of one additional short visit; award of a valuable gift or a bonus equal to one-month monetary allowance; enrolment in the list of those being reformed. Penalties applied to convicted service persons include admonition; reprimand; severe reprimand. Living conditions for convicted service persons and their medical care shall be carried out under the requirements of the Regulations of the Internal Service of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Convicted service persons shall be provided with clothing and foodstuff according to the norms established for compulsory-duty service persons. If necessary, convicts who are ill shall be committed to a hospital for treatment in custody. Convicts sentenced to imprisonment shall be committed for serving the sentences no later than ten days from the date the sentence becomes legally effective. During this period the convict shall have the right to a short visit from their members of the immediate family. Relocation of convicts in custody shall be paid for by the state. Convicts may be temporarily retained in a pre-trial detention facility and transferred from a detention facility, correctional centre, disciplinary battalion, correctional facility or juvenile correctional facility. Separate detention of convicts sentenced to imprisonment in correctional facilities and juvenile correctional facilities. Men and women, as well as minors and adults, shall be detained separately in the facilities. Convicts who have previously worked in courts, prosecution bodies, the judiciary or law enforcement agencies and, at their own request, persons who have practised law shall be held separately. Convicts sentenced to life imprisonment who, after serving ten years of their sentence in cell-type premises, were transferred to regular residential premises of a maximum-security facility. In maximum-security correctional facilities, the following units shall be established: quarantine, diagnosis and allocation; re-socialisation; and reinforced control. The operation of units in correctional facilities and juvenile correctional facilities shall be regulated by this Code and the regulatory legal acts of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Convicts first time sentenced to imprisonment for crimes committed by negligence, non-grave crimes, and those transferred from the re-socialisation unit shall be detained in the social rehabilitation unit. In the social adaptation unit, a special individual programme shall be developed for each convict in preparation for release. Convicts sentenced to imprisonment. may reside with their families within the settlement, wherein the facility is located, acquire a house in accordance with the legislation in force and commence a private household after serving six months of their sentence at the unit. If any living conditions are available, upon permission by the administration of the facility. Convicts who maliciously violate the regime of serving their sentence may be transferred. Regime in the facilities shall minimise the difference between the living conditions in the facility and in freedom. The regime shall create conditions for socially useful work of the convicts, general education and vocational training, social and educational work. Convicts, their belongings and clothing, as well as the premises and territory of the facilities, shall be subject to search and inspection. Body searches shall be carried out by persons of the same sex as the convicts. The number of items and objects convicts may keep about themselves shall be determined by the regulatory legal acts of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The security and supervision over the convicts shall be strengthened, other additional regime measures shall be implemented in cases of natural disasters, epidemics, breakdowns of vital systems, mass disturbances. Physical force, special means, straitjackets and weapons shall be applied to imprisoned persons if they physically resist the staff of the facility. Straitjackets shall not be used on convicted minors and women. Physical coercion actions, special means and weapons shall be prohibited for applying to women with obvious signs of pregnancy, the elderly or persons with pronounced signs of disability, and minors. Without warning, these actions, Means and weapons may be used if there is a direct threat to the life or health of the facility staff or other persons. Convicts may also be granted other rights, which are not contrary to the purpose of the sentence or to the conditions for executing and serving the sentence. Convicts shall be obliged to: comply with the rules governing the procedure and conditions for serving their sentence, the daily schedule of the facility, the lawful relations with other convicts, facility staff and other persons. Convicts can't use obscene or jargon words, and giving or applying nicknames. They can't keep animals without the permission of the penitentiary institution administration. The list of food, clothing, footwear, underwear and basic necessities allowed for sale to convicts shall be determined by regulatory legal acts of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Convicts are entitled to short visits of up to four hours. Long visits may also be granted to spouses who live together as a family but are not married. Convicts in the reinforced control unit shall be granted one short visit per month and one long visit per three months. Legal aid shall be extended to convicts undergoing treatment in in-patient health care facilities. Convicts shall be granted the right to telephone calls (including through mobile communication networks) without limitation of their number. These calls shall be paid for out of the convicts’ own funds. The use of the internet may take place during the day in their free time and outside the time allocated for meals and uninterrupted sleep. Convicts detained in minimum-security correctional facilities with less restrictive conditions may have and use portable personal computers with access to the internet. The procedure for arranging visits, telephone calls, the use of the internet shall be determined by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Short trips outside the correctional facilities and juvenile correctional facilities shall be allowed for a period not exceeding seven days. Convicts sentenced to imprisonment can send letters and telegrams at their own expense. The maximum weight of one parcel or postal wrapper shall be determined by the applicable postal regulations. Medicines and medical products received by convicts in accordance with a medical opinion shall be transferred to the medical unit of the facility. Convicts are kept in block-type premises. The minimum living space allowance per convict shall be four square metres. Convicts serving their sentences in juvenile correctional facilities shall be provided with food, clothing, footwear, underwear and utilities free of charge. Pregnant women and nursing mothers shall have better living conditions and better nutritional standards. A person who has refused to eat shall be under constant medical supervision from the moment this is established. Forced feeding may be applied only on the grounds of a court judgement taken following the doctor’s opinion that the convict is in danger of a permanent health disorder. Convicts have the right to seek consultation and treatment at health care facilities licensed by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Convicts sentenced to imprisonment who have an illness that threatens the health of others and those who have not completed a full course of treatment and refuse it, shall be subjected by the facility administration to compulsory medical actions or to compulsory treatment ordered by the court. Women sentenced to. imprisonment shall be guaranteed the right not to give information and not to be examined concerning. their reproductive health history. Convicts who have reached the retirement age set out in Article 26 of the Law of Ukraine “On Mandatory State Pension Insurance”, persons with a first or second group disability, persons. with active tuberculosis, women who are more than four months pregnant and women who have children in orphanages at correctional facilities shall be allowed to work at their request. The procedure for reimbursing the cost of convicts’ detention in correctional facilities shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Reimbursement by convicts of the costs set out in part 1 of this Article, which applies to the correctional facilities’ own revenue, shall be made after the deduction of personal income tax and alimony. Social and educational work shall mean the purposeful activity of the staff of penitentiary authorities and institutions and other social establishments to achieve the goal of reformation and re-socialisation of convicts. The convicts’ law-abiding behaviour shall be encouraged by means of differentiated educational impact programmes. Convicts who wish to improve their general educational level, regardless of their age, shall be provided with conditions for self-education. For convicts who do not have a trade, in which they can be employed in the facility, there shall be an opportunity to attend vocational training courses. Amateur organisations of convicts may be set up in the facilities, provided that their activities do not conflict with the procedure and conditions for serving their sentences. Convicts who are members of amateur organisations shall neither enjoy fringe benefits nor be exempted from main work. The exercise of freedom to manifest any religion shall be subject only to such limitations as are necessary to ensure isolation, public safety and are prescribed by this Code. Pastoral care activities shall not violate the procedure for executing and serving a sentence prescribed by law and other regulatory legal acts. Meetings of clergy members (chaplains) with convicts shall be provided at any time free from convicts’ work (studies) The secrecy of confession shall be inviolable and protected by law. The application of incentives shall have the purpose of exerting an educational impact on the persons to whom they are applied. As an incentive, convicts may be granted one additional short or long visit during a year. The incentives of commendation and early discharge of a previously imposed penalty shall be applied verbally or in writing. Information about persons to whom incentives have been applied may, with the convict’s consent, be disseminated through the local wall newspaper, radio, convict meetings and communicated to relatives. A person who has acted in a state of extreme necessity, under psychological or physical coercion, followed an order or instruction shall not be subject to disciplinary liability. A gross violation of the established procedure for serving the sentence shall mean the consumption of alcohol, drugs, psychotropic substances or their analogues or other intoxicating substances. The penalties imposed shall be proportionate to the gravity and nature of the misconduct committed by the convict. Several misconducts committed at the same time shall entail one penalty. Convicts subject to the disciplinary penalty of placement in a disciplinary cell, a punishment cell or transfer to cell-type premise (individual cell) may be granted a telephone call only with the permission of the head of the facility as an exception. Convicts, who are detained in a. disciplinary cell (solitary confinement) with being taken out for work, shall work separately from other convicts. A higher official may revoke a penalty where the official who imposed the penalty has exceeded their powers. If a convict is not subjected to a new penalty within six months of serving the penalty, they shall be recognised as having no penalty. The appropriateness of imposing a penalty on persons serving a sentence of imprisonment shall be decided at a meeting of the disciplinary committee of the penitentiary institution. A person serving a sentence of imprisonment shall have the right to use the services of a lawyer or a legal professional of their choice during the preparation for the meeting of the disciplinary committee. If a person does not have access to a lawyer, the administration of the penitentiary institution shall be obliged to provide them with the opportunity to seek legal aid from the legal aid entities. Placement of a convict in a cell-type premise (individual cell) shall take place under a court judgement. Convicts sentenced to imprisonment shall be financially liable for pecuniary losses caused to the state while serving their sentence in accordance with legislation. If the losses were caused in the course of work, convicts shall be financial liable in the amount. Convicts in minimum-security correctional facilities have the right to spend money earned in the facility, received as a gift, to purchase food, clothing, footwear, underwear and basic necessities. Convicts detained in the re-socialisation unit of the correctional facility shall be entitled to improved conditions of detention. In maximum-security correctional facilities, convicts shall be detained in close confinement in ordinary residential premises and cell-type premises. Convicts detained in the re-socialisation unit of the correctional facility shall be entitled to improved conditions of detention. If they are conscientious about their behaviour and their attitude to work, after serving at least half of their sentence, they will be granted better conditions.  convicted men sentenced for committing a crime under part 5 of Article 255, Articles 255-1, 255-2 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Men convicted of a premeditated grave or particularly grave crime while serving a sentence of imprisonment. Convicts transferred from medium-security correctional facilities on the grounds provided for in this Code. Convicted women have the right to settle their children under the age of three in an orphanage. An orphanage at a correctional facility is a child-care facility. Nursing mothers and pregnant women may receive food parcels (packages) in the range determined by a medical opinion. Convicted women who have a conscientious attitude to work, if available, shall be allowed by a resolution of the head of the correctional facility to live outside the facility. They shall be provided with food, clothing and utilities in accordance with the standards established for convicts serving their sentences in a correctional facility. In juvenile correctional facilities, convicts shall have the right to spend, without limitation, the money earned in the facility, received as a gift. Convicts may be granted the right to attend cultural, entertainment and sporting events outside the juvenile correctional facility, accompanied by the facility staff. The length of time outside the facility shall be determined by the head of the facility, but may not exceed eight hours. Officials who apply incentives and penalties to convicted minors and the scope of their powers. Convicts who have reached the age of eighteen may be retained in a juvenile correctional facility until the end of their sentence. Board of trustees consisting of representatives of state authorities, local governments, public organisations shall be established. Parents’ committees may be set up within the social and psychological service departments in a view of increasing the effectiveness of the educational impact on the convicts. Convicts serving a sentence of life imprisonment shall be accommodated in cell-type premises, generally two persons each. They may be detained in an individual cell by a resolution of the head of the facility. Counselling centres shall be set up in the correctional facilities for convicts who do not have a general secondary education. Convicts sentenced to life imprisonment who maliciously violate the established procedure for serving their sentence may be transferred from ordinary residential pre4mises to cell-type premises in a maximum-security correctional facility. The change of detention conditions shall not apply to convicts with venereal diseases, active tuberculosis or mental disorders. Article 153. Termination of serving the sentence and release procedure. Convicts sentenced to arrest, restriction of freedom or imprisonment shall be released on the first half of the last day of the sentence. The person being released shall be given a full settlement, their personal documents, valuables and belongings shall be returned. The money kept in their personal account shall be handed over or transferred to an account specified by the convict. Convicts who may be released on parole or commuted the unserved portion of the sentence under Articles 81, 82 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The penitentiary authority or institution shall submit a motion to the court under the procedure established by the criminal procedure legislation. If a person sentenced to community service or restriction of freedom is recognised as a person with a first or second group disability, the penitentiaries will make a submission for their early release. Convicted women sentenced to restriction of freedom or imprisonment who become pregnant or give birth to children while serving their sentence will be exempt from work. If a woman sentenced to community service or correctional labour is found to be pregnant, the competent probation authority shall file a submission to the court for her early release from serving the sentence. Social patronage activities for persons released from the sentence of restriction of freedom or imprisonment for a determined period shall be determined by the Law of Ukraine “On Social Adaptation of Individuals, who Are Serving or Have Served a Sentence in the Form of Custodial Restraint or a Term in Prison”. Minors deprived of parental care shall, where necessary, be placed in residential schools. A judge’s resolution to establish or terminate administrative supervision in the cases envisaged in Article 3 of the Law of Ukraine “On Administrative Supervision over the Persons Released from the Places of Deprivation of Liberty” shall be sent by the court to the head of the facility. The supervision over the behaviour of persons released from serving a sentence with probation during the probationary period shall be carried out by an authorised probation authority. The probationary period shall be calculated from the moment the sentence is pronounced by the court. A convict who has fulfilled the obligations imposed on them and has not committed a new criminal offence shall, upon the submission of the authorised probation authority, be released. If a convict does not fulfil the obligations set out in this Code, the Law of Ukraine ‘On Probation’ and also those imposed on the court, the court will revoke the release from serving the sentence with probation and commit them to serve the imposed sentence. This Code shall become effective on 1 January 2004. If a convict commits an administrative offence that entails administrative penalties, an individual preventive interview shall be held with the convict. A written warning of revoking the release from serving the sentence with probation and committing to serve the imposed sentence shall apply if the convict fails to fulfil at least one of the obligations defined by law. The existing procedure for recording persons released on parole and monitoring their behaviour shall continue, but for no more than five years after the effective date of this Code. Within six months of the date this Code is published, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall submit to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine proposals on bringing the laws of Ukraine in line with the Code.