The Economic Code of Ukraine shall aim to ensure growth of business activity of economic entities, development of entrepreneurship, and an increase of efficiency of social production. It will also strengthen social order in the economic system of Ukraine, facilitate its streamlining with other economic systems. The Code will regulate economic relations arising in the process of organisation and exercising economic activity between economic entities. The following shall not be governed by this Code: property and personal non-property relations, regulated by the Civil Code of Ukraine. relations with the participation of economic entities arising in the course of meeting the requirements of the legislation regulating relations in the area of preventing and countering the legalisation (laundering) of proceeds from crime, the financing of terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. constitutional fundamentals of legal economic order in Ukraine shall consist in: the ownership right of the Ukrainian people to land, its mineral resourses, atmospheric air, water and other natural resources, located within the territory of Ukraine. The right of each individual to possess, use and manage his/her property, outcome of his/hers intellectual, creative activity. The state, government authorities and local governments shall not be deemed economic entities. The state shall implement a long-term (strategic) and current (tactical) economic and social policy aimed at exercising and the most favourable conciliating of interests of economic entities and consumers. The economic strategy shall determine priority goals of the economy, means and ways of their implementation. Legal exercising of the economic policy shall be conducted through determination of the grounds of internal and external policy. The components of this policy will be industrial, agricultural, construction and other sectors of economic policy, with respect to which a relevantly independent set of incentive measures shall be introduced by the state. The state’s implementation of the economic strategy and tactics in the economic sector shall be aimed at securing economic, organisational and legal conditions. The state shall implement ecological policy to ensure efficient use and full-value reproduction of natural resources, securing safe living conditions for the population. Article 11. Legislation shall determine principles of state forecast and elaboration of programmes of economic and social development of Ukraine. The state shall employ various means and mechanisms of economic activity’s regulation. Basic means of regulating influence of the state on economic entities’ activities shall be as follows: state order; licensing, patenting and assignment of quotas. Restrictions to conduct entrepreneurial activity, and the list of types of activities, wherein entrepreneurship is prohibited, shall be established. Licensing and patenting of certain types of economic activity, as well as assignment of quotas, shall be means of state regulation. Relations arising from licensing of some types of the economic activities shall be regulated by law. Technical regulations, standards, codes of good practice and technical terms shall be applied in the economic sector. The state may provide grants to economic entities to support production of vital foods, medicines and means of rehabilitation of people with disabilities. The taxation system in Ukraine, taxes and duties shall be established exclusively by laws of Ukraine. The laws that regulate taxation of economic entities shall provide for: the best possible combination of fiscal and incentive functions of taxation. The state shall exercise the antimonopoly and competitive policy, and promote the development of competitiveness in the economic sector. The taxation system in Ukraine shall provide for limit sizes of taxes and duties that may be collected from economic entities. Tax and other mandatory payments, included to the price of products (works, services) or attributed to their total cost shall be paid by economic entities irrespective of their economic activity. The state shall ensure protection of rights and legitimate interests of economic entities and consumers. Unlawful intervention and impeding economic activity on the part of government authorities and their officials when conducting state control and supervision shall be prohibited. All economic entities shall maintain primary (operational) accounting of their activities, prepare and submit statistical information. Chambers of commerce and industry may be established in Ukraine as voluntary associations of entrepreneurs and organisations. Employers’ organisations shall be deemed self-governing statutory organisations established on voluntary and equal basis in order to represent and protect legitimate interests of employers. The state shall conduct management of the state sector of the economy pursuant to the internal and external policies. The state shall exercise the state ownership right in the state sector of the economy through the system of organisational and economic powers of corresponding management entities. Relations between management bodies and the above economic entities may be exercised on the contractual basis in cases envisaged by law. The bankruptcy proceedings with regard to state-owned enterprises shall apply. Unlawful intervention of local governments and their officials in the economic activity of economic entities shall be prohibited. Disputes with regard to the restoration of the violated rights of economic. entities and compensation for losses caused due to decisions, actions, or inaction of local. governments in exercising their powers shall be resolved in court. The state shall support competition as a contest between economic entities. A dominant position of an economic entity that provides it an opportunity to restrict competition in the market in terms of certain products (works, services) individually or in collaboration with other economic entities shall be deemed monopolistic. The state shall ensure protection of the trade secret of economic entities according to the requirements of this Code. Natural monopoly entities may be economic entities of any form of ownership (monopoly groups) that produce (sell) goods in the market being in the state of natural monopoly. The law on natural monopolies shall define areas of activity of naturalopoly entities, government authorities and local governments, other bodies that regulate operation of the above entities. Unfair competition shall be deemed any actions in competition that contradict the rules, trade and other honest practices in business activity. Discrimination of economic entities shall be prohibited. Unlawful use of somebody else’s personal name, commercial name, trademark, other markings, and promotional materials belonging to such person will be deemed unlawful. Use of a personal name of an individual in a commercial name shall be deemed legitimate given any distinctive element is added. Introduction of a product of another producer under someone’s own markings by means of alteration or removal of original producers’ markings without authorised permission will be deemed unlawful use. Advertising that contains comparison with other entities, goods (activities) of another economic entity, which directly or indirectly identifies a competitor, shall not be deemed illegal. Persuasion of a supplier directly or through a mediator into providing certain unreasonable benefits to a competitor shall be deemed instigation of a suppliers to discriminate a buyer. A person that in view of his/her duties makes decisions on behalf of the supplier on supply of goods, execution of works, rendering services, has an influence on making such decisions, or is otherwise related to it. Information associated with production, technology, management, financial or other activity of an economic entity, which is not classified as a state secret, may be declared its trade secret. Unlawful collection of information being a trade secret shall be deemed obtaining of the above information through illegal means. For illegal collection, disclosure or use of information constituing a tradesecret, the guilty persons shall be held liable. The rules of professional ethics in competition may be used when entering into agreements, developing constituent documents and other documents of economic entities. The state control over observance of the antimonopoly and competition legislation shall be exercised by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine in compliance with its powers defined by law. The Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine will be entitled to decide on forced split-up of monopoly groups. Grounds for approval of concentration of economic entities shall be defined by law. Losses incurred due to illegitimate decisions will be compensated from the State Budget of Ukraine. Entrepreneurship as a type of economic activity. Entrepreneurship in Ukraine shall be conducted in any organisational forms defined by law, at entrepreneur’s discretion. Government authorities and local governments shall be prohibited to conduct entrepreneurial activity. Entrepreneurs shall be entitled to enter into labour agreements with individuals on using their labour. The state shall guarantee to all entrepreneurs irrespective of their organisational forms of entrepreneurial activity equal rights and opportunities for employment. Providing an entrepreneur with material and technical, and other resources centrally managed and distributed by the state shall be conducted for the purpose of providing supplies, works or services for priority state needs by an entrepreneur. The rules of international treaties of Ukraine effective at the moment of adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine shall apply. The procedure for termination of entrepreneur’s activity shall be determined by the law in compliance with this Code. Non-profit economic activity may be conducted by economic entities on the basis of the right to property or the right of operational management. Economic entities are parties to economic relations that conduct economic activity. Depending on the number of employees and gross income from any annual activities, economic entities can be regarded as small enterprises, as well as micro-, medium or large enterprises. Micro-enterprises shall be: individuals registered in the manner prescribed by law as private entrepreneurs who have an average number of employees not exceeding 10 persons.  individuals registered in the manner prescribed by law as private entrepreneurs who have an average number of employees during the reporting period (calendar year) not exceeding 50 persons. Large enterprises shall be deemed legal entities – economic entities of any organisational and legal form, and form of ownership. Other economic entities shall be regarded as medium enterprises. Economic entities may be established by means of forced split-up (spin-off) of a functioning economic entity. Establishing economic entities shall be conducted pursuant to the requirements of antimonopoly and competition legislation. An economic entity may be created on the basis of a model charter approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Charter of an economic entity shall contain information on its name, purpose and subject of activity, size and procedure for distributing profits and losses. Charter (provisions) shall be approved by the property owner or his/her representatives, bodies or other entities in compliance with the law. Enterprises may be established both for entrepreneurship and non-profit economic activity. An enterprise shall be classified as a legal entity, shall have separated property, independent balance sheet, accounts in banking institutions, and may have stamps. Unitary and corporate enterprises in Ukraine, depending on the way of creation (establishment) and forming of authorised capital. A corporate enterprise shall be commonly established by two or more co-founders upon their joint decision (agreement), and operate on the basis of conglomeration of property and/or entrepreneurial or labour activity. An enterprise shall independently determine its organisational structure, the number of employees and the personnel arrangement. The term “ultimate beneficial owner (controller)” shall be understood in the meaning used in the Law of Ukraine“On Preventing and Counteracting Legalisation (Laundering) of Proceeds from Crime, Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction”. The sources of generating assets of the enterprise shall be as follows: monetary and material contributions of its co-founders; proceeds generated from sale of goods, services, other types of economic activity; securities yields; loans from banks and other lenders. Property of an enterprise shall include production and non-production assets, as well as other values. An enterprise shall be entitled to independently sell all its products in the territory of Ukraine and abroad, unless otherwise provided by law. State-owned enterprises, including economic companies (except banks), in the authorised capital of which the state owns fifty per cent or more of shares (equities) shall obtain domestic long-term (for more than 1 year) and external credit facilities. The owner and the management bodies of the enterprise shall ensure proper and safe working conditions to all employees. An enterprise shall be held liable under procedure established by law for the damage that may be caused to the health and working capacity of its employees. Enterprise associations may be formed on the terms and in the manner prescribed by this Code and other laws. A state-owned unitary enterprise shall be established by a competent government authority under the regulatory order on the basis of a separate part of state property. The name of such an enterprise shall contain the words ‘state-owned enterprise’ The supervisory board of the enterprise (if any) shall be accountable to the body that has appointed (elected) it. The supervisory board of a state-owned unitary enterprise shall be established upon the decision of the entity in charge of state property, which performs the functions of enterprise’s management. The procedure for creation, organisation of activity and liquidation of the supervisoryBoard shall be determined in accordance with the Law of Ukraine “On the Specific Aspects of Management of State Property in the Military Industrial Sector”.  audit opinions on the annual financial reporting of a state-owned unitary enterprise for the last three years, provided the audit was conducted in accordance with law or by decision of the supervisory board. It shall also indicate who of the members of thesupervisory board of aState-ownedUnitary enterprise is independent. A state-owned unitary enterprise shall publish the annual financial reporting along with the auditor’s opinion, provided the audit was conducted in accordance with law or by the decision of the supervisory board. The general manager of a state- owned unitary. enterprise shall be held liable for the publishing and credibility of the information stipulated by this Article in accordance. with the laws of Ukraine and the terms of the agreement concluded with him/her. The scope of this Article shall apply to the economic obligations of state-owned unitary enterprises. The subject of which is alienation or acquisition of goods or other property, the book value of which exceeds 100 minimum wages based on the minimum wage amount set on 1 January of the year in which the respective economic obligation is performed. The charter of a state-owned unitary enterprise may provide for a lower threshold for the value of property, works or services or the amount of funds that are the subject of an economic obligation of interest. A person who is interested in performing an economic. obligation shall within three working days from the moment of the emergence of his/her interest, but prior to performing an. economic obligation, submit for consideration to the supervisory board, and in the. cases provided for in Part 9 of this Article, the authority a state.owned unitARY enterprise is subordinated to. The decision to consent to perform an economic obligation of interest shall be submitted for consideration to the authority a state-owned unitary enterprise is subordinated to. The book value of property or services or the amount of funds to be provided, alienated, received or transferred in accordance with the economic obligation under Part 3 of this Article exceeds 10 per cent of the value of assets. Liability for damage caused to a state-owned unitary enterprise by an economic obligation of interest, performed in violation of the requirements of this Article, shall be borne by a person interested in such economic obligation. A significant economic obligation shall be subject to approval by the supervisory board. A significant economic obligation performed in violation of the procedure provided for in Parts 1–4 of this Article may be declared invalid by a court. A state-owned commercial enterprise shall be deemed an economic entity acting under the charter or model charter and held liable for the consequences of its operation by all property belonging to it. The state and the authority a state- owned commercial enterprise is subordinated to shall not be liable for its obligations. A state-owned enterprise, its subsidiaries, and enterprises, economic companies in the authorised capital of which 50 per cent or more belong to it, shall publish on the web portal of the Authorised Body a report on the conclusion of an agreement for the purchase of goods, works and services at the expense of enterprises. The report shall include: the name, quantity of goods and place of delivery, type of work and place. of their performance or type of services. A state-owned commercial enterprise shall not have the right to transfer its property free of charge to other legal entities or individuals, except for cases envisaged by law. Write-offs of not fully depreciated fixed assets from the balance sheet shall be conducted exclusively with the consent of the authority the enterprise is subordinated to. The State Property Fund of Ukraine shall act as an organiser of the sale of immovable property. The distribution of profit (income) of state-owned commercial enterprises shall be conducted in accordance with the approved financial plan. The financial plan shall approve the amounts of funds that shall be channelled to the state as the owner. An official government enterprise shall be established upon the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. An official government enterprise shall conduct its economic activity according to the production tasks of the authority it is subordinated to. An official government commercial enterprise, its subsidiaries, as well as enterprises, economic companies, in the case of procurement conducted by them, shall publish on the web portal of the Authorised Body defined by the Law of Ukraine “On Public Procurement” A report on the conclusion of an agreement for the procurement of goods, works and services at the expense of enterprises should be published no later than seven days after a procurement agreement. The State Property Fund of Ukraine shall act as an organiser of the sale of immovable property in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Sources of generating assets of an official government enterprise shall be as follows: state property transferred to an enterprise pursuant to the decision on its establishment. The name of a communal unitary enterprise shall contain the words “communal enterprise” and a reference to the local government an enterprise is subordinated to. The supervisory board of an enterprise (if any) shall control and direct the activity of the general manager. The criteria according to which the formation of the supervisoryBoard is mandatory shall be established by a decision of the respective local council.  audit opinions on the annual financial reporting of a communal unitary enterprise for the last three years, provided the audit was conducted in accordance with law or by decision of the supervisory board. curriculum vitae (including job review) of the general manager of a communal unitary enterprise (with due account of requirements of the legislation on personal data protection) The general manager of a communal unitary enterprise shall be held liable for the publishing and credibility of the information stipulated by this Article. Damages caused to a communalUnitary enterprise due to execution of decisions of government authorities or local governments shall be subject to compensation by the above bodies voluntarily or by a court decision. Specific aspects of economic activity of communal Unitary enterprises shall be determined in accordance with the requirements established by this Code. This Article shall apply to the economic obligations of communal unitary enterprises. It applies to alienation or acquisition under one agreement or several related agreements of goods or other property, the book value of which exceeds 100 minimum wages based on the minimum wage amount set on 1 January of the year in which the respective economic obligation is performed. Performance or ordering of works or provision of services, the market value of which exceeds 100 minimum wages based on the minimum wage amount set on 1 January of the year in which the respective economic obligation is performed. granting or receiving a loan, other financing on a repayable basis in the amount exceeding 50 minimum wages. The charter of a communal unitary enterprise may provide for a lower threshold for the value of property, works or services. The decision to consent to perform an economic obligation of interest shall be taken by a majority vote of the members of the supervisory board. The book value of property or services or the amount of funds to be provided, alienated, received or transferred in accordance with the economic obligation under Part 3 of this Article exceeds 10 per cent of the value of assets. The subject of the agreement is immovable or other property, provided the mode of its lease or alienation is regulated by special legislation. An economic obligation of interest performed in violation of the procedure for making a decision to consent to its performance shall create, change, terminate the rights and obligations of its parties only provided further approval of such economic obligation. In the event of failure to obtain further approval, such obligation shall be declared invalid by court at the request of a communal unitary enterprise. An economic company, the state share in the authorised capital of which exceeds 50 per cent, as well as enterprises, economic companies, shall publish on the web portal of the Authorised Body a report on the conclusion of an agreement for procurement of goods, works and services at the expense of enterprises. A joint-stock company shall be deemed an economic company that has an authorised capital divided into a certain number of shares. The constituent document of a joint-stock company, a limited liability company and an additional liability company shall be the charter. The list of information to be contained in the charters of limited and additional liability companies shall be determined exclusively by the Law of Ukraine “ On Limited and Additional Liability Companies” State registration of an economic company shall be conducted in accordance with law. An economic company may be established and operate under the model charter in the manner prescribed by law. Violation of the requirements stipulated by this Article shall be grounds for denial of its state registration. The name of a company shall contain an indication of the type of a firm. An economic company may open bank accounts, as well as enter into agreements only after its state registration. Agreements concluded by the founders of a company before the date of its registration shall be recognised as concluded with the company. It is prohibited to use budget funds for the generation of authorised (contributed) capital of an economic company. An economic company in the authorised capital of which more than 50 per cent of shares (equities) directly or indirectly belong to the state, shall draw up and implement an annual financial plan for each subsequent year in accordance with Article 75 hereof. Financial plans of a gas transmission system operator, as well as a company that holds corporate rights in the transmission system operators, shall not be approved. The criteria for classifying companies as those whose financial reporting is subject to mandatory audit by an independent auditor shall be determined by a respective local council. An economic company in the authorised capital of which more than 50 per cent of shares (equities) belong to a territorial community, shall publish information about its activities, except in cases established by law. An economic company in the authorised capital of which more than 50 per cent of shares (equities) belong to the state or territorial community, and an economic company, in which the state and territorial community share is 100 per cent, shall publish annual financial reporting. curriculum vitae (including job review) of the general manager and members of the executive body of aneconomic company. Co-operatives as voluntary associations of individuals for joint addressing of economic, social and other issues can be created in different industries (industrial, consumer, housing ones, etc.) The activities of various types of co-operative shall be governed by law. In order to conduct economic activities on the basis of entrepreneurship, individuals may establish production co-operative (co-operative enterprises) The number of members of a production co-operative may not be less than 3 persons. Citizens may be members of production. co-operatives, and members of other types of co- Cooperatives (consumer, housing. ones, etc.) at the same time. A member of a co- cooperative shall make membership and share contribution in the manner prescribed by the charter. The main rights of members of a production co-operative shall be as follows: participation in the management of a co- cooperative, the right to vote at the general meeting of co-op’s members. The main obligations of members shall be compliance with the charter and enforcement of decisions of the co-ops’ management bodies. The property of a production co-operative shall be divided into mutual and indivisible funds in accordance with its charter. Indivisible fund shall be formed out of the admission fees and property of the co- cooperative (except for land plots). Share contributions of co-op’s members shall not be included into it. The amount of share contributions to the Co-op shall be established in equal parts and/or in proportion to the expected participation of a co-ops member. The general meeting of co-operative’s members shall be held annually after the end of the financial year. The general meeting shall be entitled to make any other decisions related to the statutory activities of a production co- cooperative. Decisions on the issues specified in Part 1 of this Article shall be made by a majority vote of the total number of Co-operatives’ members. The management board of a production co-operative may hire an executive director for operational management of the enterprise’s activities. Members of the management board may elect from among their members deputy chair and secretary. The frequency of meetings of the co-operatives management board shall be determined by their charter. A supervisory board may be established to monitor the activities of the executive director. A co-operative with less than ten members shall have an auditor elected. The audit commission (auditor) shall be elected by the general meeting. Members of the management board or supervisory board of a production co- cooperative shall not be members of the audit commission. Co-operative payments shall be deemed a part of the income of a co-op. A production co-operative shall independently conduct foreign economic activity in accordance with law. The procedure for using co- cooperative funds in foreign currency shall be established by law and the co-op’s charter. The property relations of a member of a co-operative with a. co-operation in the event of termination of membership and regarding the transfer of an. equity shall be regulated by civil legislation. Consumer co-operation in Ukraine shall be deemed a system of self-governing organisations of individuals (co-operative societies, their unions, associations), as well as enterprises and institutions of these organisations. Other issues related to the activities of a production co-operative shall be governed by this Code and other laws. An enterprise of a citizens’ association, a religious organisation shall be deemed a unitary enterprise. Political parties and legal entities created by them shall be prohibited from founding enterprises. Religious organisations shall be entitled to establish publishing, printing, production, restoration and construction, agricultural and other enterprises necessary to provide the activities of these organisations. A stakeholder of a private enterprise may request for notarisation of the transaction, the subject of which is the share of such stakeholder in the authorised capital of the enterprise. Article 114. Farming enterprise shall be deemed a form of citizens’ entrepreneurship for the purpose of production, processing and sale of marketable agricultural products. Persons who work in a farming enterprise under an employment agreement (contract) may not be stakeholders. The legal status and procedure for operation of enterprises with foreign investment shall be determined by this Code, the law on thee foreign investment regime in Ukraine, and other legislative acts. Foreign enterprises shall not be established in industries defined by law that are of strategic importance for the security of the state. An enterprise association shall be deemed an economic organisation made of two or more enterprises. Economic associations shall be established as associations, corporations, consortiums, concerns, other enterprise associations provided for by law. Provisions of this Chapter shall also apply to associations of other economic entities – legal entities or enterprise associations with the participation of such entities. The state (communal) economic association shall operate on the basis of the decision on its establishment. State and communal economic associations shall be basically established as a corporation or concern, regardless of the name of the association. Concerns shall endow it with part of their powers, including the right to act on their behalf in relations with government authorities. Concern’s stakeholders shall not be members of another concern at the same time. The executive body of an economic association (collegial or individual) shall decide on issues of current activity. Management of a state (communal) economic association shall be conducted by the management board of an association. Disputes arising between the stakeholders of an associations shall be resolved in the manner prescribed by the charter or in court under the law. Stakeholders of an association may withdraw from it with the preservation of mutual obligations and concluded agreements with other economic entities. Withdrawal of an enterprise from a state (communal) economic association shall be effected by a decision of the authority that has decided to establish an association. A holding company shall be deemed a public joint-stock company that owns, uses and disposes of holding corporate blocks of shares (equities) of two or more corporate enterprises. Should a corporate enterprise be insolvent and declared bankrupt due to the actions or inaction of a holding company, a holdingCompany shall bear subsidiary liability for the obligations of the corporate enterprise. An individual entrepreneur shall comply with the requirements provided for in Articles 46 and 49 hereof, and other legislative acts. An individual entrepreneur may be declared bankrupt by court under the requirements of this Code and other laws. When conducting economic activities in Ukraine, foreign legal entities have the same status as legal entities of Ukraine. Legal entities, regardless of their ownership form, and adult individuals may establish charitable organisations. Government authorities and local governments, state-owned and communal enterprises, institutions, organisations that are fully or partially funded from the budget shall not be founders or members of a charitable organisation. A charitable organisation shall be entitled to conduct non-profit economic activity aimed at fulfilling its goals. An economic entity conducting economic activities under the right to property at its own discretion, individually or jointly with other entities, shall own, use and dispose of the property belonging to it. A property owner shall be entitled to exercise organisational and constituent powers based on his/her corporate rights in accordance with this Code and other laws. The right of economic management shall be deemed a real right of an economic entity that owns, uses and disposes of property assigned to it by a property owner (authorised body) A business entity that conducts economic activity under the right ofEconomic Management shall be entitled to protect its property rights from a property owners. The right of operational management shall be protected by law in accordance with the provisions prescribed for the protection of property rights. Sources of generating property of economic entities shall be as follows: monetary and material contributions of its co-founders; income from the sale of products (works, services); securities yields. State property in the economic sector shall include unified assets of state-owned enterprises or their structural units. Legal regulation of property of economic entities shall be defined by this Code and other laws. The state, through the authorised government bodies, shall also exercise the rights of a property owner in respect of the property of the Ukrainian people. The composition of gross income and gross expenses of economic entities shall be defined by law. State property used in the process of electricity transmission and transportation and/or storage of natural gas shall be assigned under the right of economic management to economic entities. The procedure for the use of profit (income) of an economic entity shall be determined by the owner (owners) or the authorised body in accordance with the legislation. Property status of an economic entity shall be determined by the set of its property rights and property obligations, which shall be indicated in the accounting of its economic activity in accordance with the requirements of the law. The right to property subject to state registration shall arise from the date of registration of this property. Property rights of economic entities shall be protected by law. Seizure by the state of the economic entity’s property shall be allowed only in cases. Legal regulation of the use of certain types of natural resources (land, water, forests, mineral resources, atmospheric air, fauna) shall be defined. Natural resources may be provided to economic entities for use. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall provide the state accounting of natural resources that belong to state property, managed by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and can be used in economic activities. Economic entities may be granted ownership of land with closed reservoirs, forest areas, common minerals it contains. Intellectual property in the economic sector shall be as follows: inventions and utility models; industrial designs; plant varieties and animal breeds. Relations arising from the use and protection of intellectual property rights in economic activities shall be governed by this Code and other laws. The law may define other responsibilities of an economic entity for the use of natural resources in economic activity. The terms for the use of a trademark in economic activities shall be defined by law. Rules of this Article shall also apply to the regulation of relations arising in connection with the exercise of rights to plant varieties and animal breeds. The right to a trademark shall be assessed together with other property of this entity. The term of legal protection of a trade secret shall be limited to the period of validity of the set of conditions specified in Part 1 of this Article. A person who illegally uses commercial information belonging to an economic entity shall reimburse the damages caused to it by such actions. Equity, debt and other securities may be issued and circulated in Ukraine. The right to issue shares and bonds of of an enterprise shall arise in an economic entity from the date of registration of this issue in the respective government authority. Securities purchase and sale operations shall be conducted by their issuers, owners, as well as securities traders – intermediaries in the area of issue and circulation of securities. State regulation of the securities market shall be provided by the National Commission on Securities and Stock Market. Corporate rights shall be deemed the rights of a person whose share is determined in the authorised capital (property) of an economic organisation. Ownership of corporate rights shall not be deemed entrepreneurship. The law may provide for restrictions on certain individuals’ ownership and/or exercise of Corporate rights. An economic obligation is an obligation that arises between an economic entity and another party (parties) to the economic activities. The main types of economic obligations shall be property and economic obligations and organisational andEconomic obligations. By mutual consent, the parties may specify or expand the content of an economic obligation in the course of its implementation. Economic entities may voluntarily assume property obligations to the benefit of other parties to economic relations (charity, etc.) Such obligations shall not be deemed a basis for their mandatory performance. Economic entities shall be entitled to conduct joint economic activities to achieve a common goal, without establishing a single economic entity. Economic entities under Part 4 of Article 175 hereof may, regardless of the statutory purpose of their activities, undertake obligations for economic assistance. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine may provide for the regulations that are binding on the parties to a public obligation, including fixing or regulation of prices. An economic agreement shall be deemed concluded provided the parties have agreed on all its essential terms in the manner and form prescribed by law. The content of an agreement concluded on the basis of the state order shall correspond to this order. Economic agreements shall be concluded under the procedure established by the Civil Code of Ukraine with due account of specific aspects. The price in an economic agreement shall be established in the manner prescribed by this Code, other laws, and acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. An economic agreement may provide for extra charges to the established price for products (works, services) of higher quality or performance in a shorter period time compared to the standard one. A party that has received the protocol of disagreements to the agreement shall review it within twenty days and take steps to settle disagreements with the other party within the same period of time. If the parties fail to reach an agreement on all the essential terms of an economic agreement, such agreement shall be deemed not concluded (one that has failed) Agreements under the state order shall be concluded between economic entities defined by law. The state, represented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, shall act as a guarantor for the obligations of state customers. Disputes related to the conclusion of a contract under state order, including evasion of the contract by one or both parties, shall be resolved in court. Standard rules for concluding agreements based on free act and deed. Streamlined method of concluding organisational and economic agreements shall not be allowed. Disputes arising from conclusion of economic agreements under state order, or agreements, the conclusion of which is obligatory under the law, shall be considered by court. Price shall be an essential term of an economic agreement. Agreement price shall be specified in hryvnias. Prices in foreign trade agreements (contracts) may be fixed in foreign currency by agreement of the parties. Free pricing shall be applied to all types of products (works, services), except for those for which state- regulated prices are set. The application of economic sanctions to an entity that has breached an obligation shall not release that entity from the duty to perform the obligation in kind, unless otherwise provided by law or an agreement. An entitled party, accepting the performance of an economic obligation, shall issue a written certificate of the obligation’s performance in whole or in part. An entitled entity of economic obligation, unless otherwise provided for by law, may transfer to the other party, with its consent, the rights due to it. The transfer (assignment) of such rights may be subject to a certain period. A deed of assignment of economic and administrative powers to another entity shall be deemed valid from the date of official publication of this deed.  monetary obligations of the parties to economic relations shall be fixed and payable in hryvnias. Monetary obligations may be denominated in a foreign currency only provided the entities are entitled to make mutual payments in foreign currency under the law. Obligations of economic entities belonging to the state sector of the economy may be secured by a state guarantee. The law may provide for the obligation of commercial banks, insurers, joint-stock companies and other economic entities to transfer part of their funds to generate a single security fund of public pledge. A guarantor shall have the right to file only those claims to an entitled party, the filing of which is allowed by a letter of guarantee. An economic obligation may be terminated by crediting a security obligation. An economic obligation may be terminated by agreement of the parties. It is prohibited to credit claims in respect of which the statute of limitations shall be applied at the request of the other party. An economic obligation shall be terminated in the event of merger of entitled and obligated parties in one entity. In the event of invalidation of an obligation on other grounds, either party shall return to the other party everything obtained under an obligation. If two or more creditors have monetary claims against one debtor at the same time, they shall establish a meeting (committee) of creditors. Creditors of insolvent debtors shall be legal entities or individuals. The founders (stakeholders) of a business entity, a property owner, government authorities and local governments endowed with economic competence shall take timely measures within their powers to prevent its bankruptcy. Owners of a state (communal) or private enterprise’s property may provide financial aid in the amount sufficient for repayment of its obligations to creditors. The liquidation estate shall also include the property assets of individuals liable for the obligations of an insolvent debtor. The procedures for insolvent debtors provided for in this Code shall not apply to state-owned enterprises. Bankruptcy relations, the parties to which are foreign creditors, shall be governed by the legislation of Ukraine. The parties to economic relations shall bear economic and legal liability for offences in economic activities by applying economic sanctions to offenders. The application of economic sanctions shall guarantee the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of individuals, organisations and the state. The statutory liability of a manufacturer (seller) for substandard products shall also be applied. The following types of economic sanctions shall be applied in the economic sector: compensation for losses; penalties; operational and economic sanctions. The founders of an economic entity shall not be held liable for the obligations of this entity. The court shall be entitled to reduce the amount of liability or release a defendant from liability. A creditor’s delay shall provide a debtor the right to compensation for damages caused by the delay. Parties to economic relations, which have violated the property rights or legitimate interests of other entities shall restore them before a claim or appeal is submitted to the court. A claim shall state: full name and postal details of a claimant and a person (persons) the claim is filed to. Claims must be signed by an authorised person of the claimant or its representative and sent to the addressee by registered or valuable letter. Documents confirming the applicant’s claims shall be attached in original or duly certified copies. Documents available to the other party may not be attached to the claim. The law may establish limited liability for non-performance or improper performance of obligations in relation to certain types of economic obligations. A party that has violated its obligation or knows for sure that it will violate it when it is due, shall immediately notify the other party. Losses caused by the legitimate refusal of the obligated party to continue fulfilling the obligation shall not be subject to compensation. The amount of losses shall be calculated in the currency in which settlements have been made or should be made between the parties, unless otherwise provided for by law. In the event of raising claims for damages in foreign currency, a creditor shall indicate the monetary equivalent of the amount of loss in hryvnias at the official exchange rate of the National Bank of Ukraine. The law may determine the amount of penalties for certain types of obligations, which shall not be changed by agreement of the parties. Penalties for violation of monetary obligations shall be established as interest. The dispute may be resolved in court at the request of a party concerned under the requirements of this Code. The amount of penalties applied in intracompany relations for violation of obligations shall be determined by a respective economic entity – an economic organisation. The accrual of penalties for overdue performance of an obligation, unless otherwise established by law, shall be terminated six months after the date when the obligation should have been fulfilled. For violation of economic obligations, economic entities and other parties to economic relations may be subject to operational and economic sanctions – measures of operational influence on an offender. In economic agreements, the parties may provide for the application of these sanctions. The grounds for applying these sanctions shall be the fact of violation of an economic obligation by the other party. Administrative and economic sanctions may be applied to economic entities by government authorities or local governments. The procedure for applying specific operational andEconomic sanctions by the parties shall be defined by the agreement. In the event of disagreement with the application of an operational and economic sanction, a party concerned may apply to the court with an application for cancellation of such a sanction. An economic entity shall be charged a fine in cases and under procedure provided for by law, but not more than twice the amount of the withdrawn amount. The list of violations for which the sanctions provided for in this Article shall be applied to an economic entity, as well as the procedure for their application, shall be defined by laws. An economic entity whose activities contradict the law or its constituent documents may be liquidated by a court decision. An economic entity shall be entitled to appeal to the court a decision of any government authority or local government regarding the application of administrative and economic sanctions. Losses caused to an economic entity in connection with the illegal application ofAdministrative and Economic sanctions shall be subject to compensation. Administrative and economic sanctions may be applied to an economic entity within six months from the date of detection of a violation. The scope of this Article shall not apply to penalties, the amount and procedure for collecting of which are determined by the Tax Code of Ukraine, the Laws of Ukraine “On Currency and Currency Operations”, “on Banks and Banking Activity” and other laws. Officials of government authorities, local governments, enterprises, institutions, organisations, as well as individuals registered as entrepreneurs, shall bear administrative liability in accordance with law. Fines for violations of the antimonopoly and competition legislation shall be collected by court. Withdrawal of goods with illegally used markings or goods that are copies of another economic entity's products. The Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine and its territorial branches shall be entitled to make a decision to refute false, inaccurate or incomplete information disseminated by a violator. Legal regulation of economic relations shall be effected with due account of the existing social division of labour and objectively existing economy sectors. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall approve steps for the development of national statistics of Ukraine and the National Classification System. National classifiers shall be an integral part of the National classification System. The procedure for developing, approving, amending and canceling national classifiers will be established by the central executive authority. The turnover of industrial and technical products and the turnover of consumer goods in the economic sector shall be governed by this Code and other legislative acts adopted under it. In the part not regulated by these acts, the respective provisions of the Civil Code of Ukraine shall be applied. The legislation may provide for the specific aspects of the delivery of certain types of products or consumer goods. A supply agreement shall be concluded at the discretion of the parties or in accordance with the state order. The parties to a supply agreement may be economic entities specified in Clauses 1, 2 , Part 2 of Article 55 hereof. The total number of goods to be supplied, their partial ratio (range, assortment, classification) by grades, groups, subgroups, types, brands, and sizes shall be determined by the specification by agreement. A supply agreement may provide for the procedure for shipment of goods by any mode of transport. The parties may also co-ordinate the delivery schedule in the agreement. A supplier shall certify the quality of the delivered goods with the appropriate accompanying document, which shall be sent together with the goods. The terms and procedure for determining by a buyer the defects of the goods delivered, which could not be detected during their regular acceptance, shall be determined by the legislation in accordance with this Code. The parties may stipulate in the agreement that the guaranteed period shall be longer than the standards or specifications provided for. Guaranteed service life shall be calculated from the date of putting a product into service. A supplier (manufacturer) shall guarantee the quality of goods as a whole. In the event of delivery of goods of improper quality, a buyer (consignee) shall be entitled to collect a fine from the manufacturer (supplier) in the amount provided for in Article 231 hereof. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall approve Provisions on the supply of industrial and technical products and consumer goods, as well as Special Delivery Terms for certain types of goods. Contractual agreements shall provide for: types of products (range), maximum permissible concentration of harmful substances in products. The buyer’s acceptance of incomplete products shall not release a supplier (manufacturer) from liability. A contractual agreement may provide for the volume of agricultural products that a contractor shall accept directly from a manufacturer. The remaining products shall be accepted by a contractor at the reception points defined by the agreement. For failure to deliver agricultural products within the terms stipulated in the agreement, a manufacturer shall pay a contractor a penalty. The total amount of power to be provided shall be determined by agreement of the parties. Power quality indicators shall be agreed by the parties by coordinating a list (value) of indicators. The main accounting period for power supply shall be a decade, with volume adjustments during the day. Settlements under power supply agreements shall be effected on the basis of prices. The legal terms for the establishment and operation of commodity exchanges, as well as the basic rules for trading and exchange activities, shall be determined by this Code. Legal terms for organising and conducting purchase and sale of electric power shall be established by the Law of Ukraine “On the Electric Power Market” A commodity exchange shall: create conditions for conducting exchange trading; regulate exchange operations; regulate the prices of goods allowed to be traded on the exchange; provide organisational, informational and other services to exchange members and visitors; provide collection, processing and distribution of information related to market conditions. The rules of exchange trading shall be developed in accordance with the legislation. Lease of structural units of state-owned and communal enterprises shall not violate the production and economic integrity, and technological unity of this enterprise. Lease of a leased property shall be. effected at the replacement cost, except for leased property of state. and communal property, the assessment of which shall be effected. according to the methodology approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Lease payment shall be deemed a fixed payment that a lessee shall pay to a lessor regardless of the consequences of its economic activities. The amount of lease payment may be changed by agreement of the parties, as well as in other cases stipulated by law. State and communal property lessors shall be as follows: The State Property Fund of Ukraine, its regional branches and bodies authorised by the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The purpose and subject of economic activity defined in the constituent documents of an economic entity that conducts economic activity based on leased property shall not contradict the terms of a lease agreement. Leasing can be of two types – financial or operational one. According to the form of implementation, leasing can be reverse, shared, international, etc. Leasing property may be immovable and movable property intended for use as fixed assets, which is not prohibited by law for free circulation in the market. Land plots, other natural sites, as well as unified assets of state (communal) enterprises and their structural units shall not be leased property. Legal regulation of leasing shall be conducted in accordance with this Code and other laws. Commercial mediation (agency activity) shall mean an entrepreneurial activity that consists in providing services by a commercial agent to economic entities. A commercial agent may be an economic entity (individual or legal entity) that performs commercial mediation under the authority based on the agency agreement. Entrepreneurs who act on their own behalf, although to other people’s benefit, shall not be deemed commercial agents. Agreement shall specify the form of confirmation of the authority (representation) of a commercial agent. Agent shall inform the entity it represents about each case of its mediation in the conclusion of transactions and about each transaction concluded by it to the benefit of this entity. Agency remuneration shall be paid to a commercial agents after payment by a third party under an agreement concluded with its mediation. The parties to an agency agreement may conclude a separate agreement on the protection of confidential information. A commercial agent shall be fully liable for damage caused to an entity it represents due to failure to perform or improper performance of its duties. The parties may provide in the agreement that an additional remuneration shall be paid to a commercial agent. An agency agreement shall be terminated by agreement of the parties, as well as in the event of: revocation of the powers of a commercial agent by an entity it represents. The parties to cargo transportation relations shall be carriers, consignors and consignees. General terms of cargo transportation shall be defined by this Code and the transport codes. Relations involving the transportation of passengers and luggage shall be governed by the Civil Code of Ukraine and other regulatory acts. A cargo transportation agreement shall be concluded in writing. Carriers shall provide consignors with forms of transport documents in accordance with the rules for conducting the corresponding transportation. A carrier shall issue a duly executed document to a consignor at the point of departure on acceptance of the cargo for transportation. In the event of interruption or termination of cargo transportation due to circumstances beyond the carrier’s control, a carrier shall notify a Consignor and receive respective instructions regarding the cargo. The rules of Article 307 hereof shall apply to transhipment cargo transportation agreement, unless otherwise provided by the transport codes or charters. A carrier shall be released from liability for delay in the delivery of cargo, provided the delay has occurred through no fault of its own. Prior to filing a claim to a carrier arising from a cargo transportation agreement, one can first file a complaint against it. Complaints in respect of payment of a fine or bonus shall be considered within forty-five days. A carrier shall consider a filed complaint and notify an applicant of its satisfaction or rejection within three months. For a carrier to file claims against consignors and consignees arising from transportation, a six-month period shall be established. A freight forwarding agreement may stipulate the provision of additional services required for the delivery of cargo. The general terms and conditions of contracting agreements shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code of Ukraineon contracting agreements, unless otherwise provided by this Code. Economic relations in the area of material and technical support of major construction shall be governed by the respective contracting agreements. A major construction contracting agreement shall provide for: the name of the parties; the place and date of its conclusion; the subject of the agreement; the terms of start and completion of construction, performance of works; the rights and obligations of parties. A customer may enter into a contracting agreement for the installation of equipment with a general contractor or with an equipment supplier. A contractor shall be entitled not to undertake the work, and to suspend the work started should a customer violate its obligations under the agreement. Deficiencies in the performance of works or defects in supplies used for work, which were contractor's or subcontractor's responsibility, shall be eliminated by a contractor at its own expense. For non-performance or improper performance of obligations under a major construction contracting agreement, a guilty party shall pay penalties. A contractor shall eliminate the deficiencies identified during the acceptance of the work (facility) at its own expense within the time limits agreed with a customer. The provisions of Article 318 hereof may apply to relations arising in the course of performing design and survey works. A contractor shall be held liable for the deficiencies of a design, including those identified during its implementation and operation of the facility built under this design. In the event of detection of design’s deficiencies, a contractor shall alter the design free of charge. A claim for compensation for losses to a customer caused by design's deficiencies may be filed within ten years. The state shall govern innovative activities by: definition of innovative activities as a necessary component of investment and structural and sectoral policy. Investing in the reproduction of fixed assets and the growth of inventories shall be effected as capital investment. The law may provide for industries or entities of innovative activity in which the use of foreign investment shall be restricted or prohibited. Scientific and technical products shall be deemed a completed research, design, technological works and services. Relations arising in the process of innovative activities shall be governed by this Code and other legislative acts. Financial activities of economic entities shall include monetary and other financial intermediation, insurance, and auxiliary activities in the area of finance and insurance. The banking system of Ukraine consists of the National Bank of Ukraine and other banks, as well as branches of foreign banks. Banks can operate as universal or specialised ones – savings, investment, mortgage, and settlement (clearing) banks. Officials of government authorities and local governments shall be prohibited from participating in the management bodies of banks. The state of Ukraine may be a stakeholder of a bank represented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or its authorised bodies. Legal entities in which a bank has a significant share, public associations, political parties, religious and charitable organisations shall not be bank’s stakeholders. Banks shall be entitled to create banking associations, the types of which shall be determined by law. Bank settlement operations shall be aimed at providing mutual settlements between parties to economic relations, as well as other settlements in the financial sector. Deposits shall be formed out of funds in cash or non-cash form, in hryvnias or foreign currency. A bank deposit agreement shall be concluded in writing. A business entity shall be entitled to open accounts for storing funds, performing all types of operations in any banks of Ukraine and other states of its choice. Legal entities and individual entrepreneurs shall open accounts. The procedure for opening accounts in banking institutions, the forms of payments and the procedure for their implementation shall be determined by the law. Banking operations defined as such by the law on banks and banking shall be recognised as lending operations. Lending relations shall be conducted on the basis of a loan agreement concluded between a lender and a borrower in writing. International settlements shall be effected through the institutions of banks that have correspondent relations (banks that have an agreement on making payments and settlements on mutual behalf) Banking, commercial, leasing, mortgage and other forms of loans may be used in the economic sector. Loans provided by banks shall differ in terms of use, method of securing, degree of risk, methods of providing and maturities. Banks can borrow resources from each other on the contractual basis. A bank shall be entitled to conclude a factoring agreement under which it shall transfer or undertake to transfer funds to the disposal of the other party for a fee. Insurance may be effected on the basis of a contract concluded between a policyholder and a insurant (voluntary insurance) or under the law (compulsory insurance) The National Bank of Ukraine shall be entitled under the law to establish additional requirements for insurance contracts. The conclusion of an insurance contract may be confirmed by an insurance certificate (policy), which shall be a form of insurance contract. The law may also provide for other types of intermediary activities with securities (securities management activities, etc.) A securities trader who has a license to conduct any type of intermediary activity in issuing and circulating securities shall not directly or indirectly own the property of another securities trader. Special requirements for concluding agreements in relation to securities shall be defined by law. Financial reporting audit shall be conducted by audit entities registered in the Register of Auditors and Audit Entities. State financial audit shall be deemed a type of state financial control. Financial reporting audit and state financial audit may be conducted on the initiative of economic entities, and in cases stipulated by law (mandatory audit). An auditor shall mean an individual who has confirmed his/her qualification for conducting audit activity. A commercial concession agreement shall provide for the use of a set of rights granted to a user, business reputation and commercial experience of a rightholder in a certain scope. The agreement must be concluded in writing as a single document. Failure to comply with this requirement shall entail the invalidity of the agreement. A commercial concession agreement may provide for restrictions on the rights of the parties under this agreement. A rightholder shall bear subsidiary liability for the claims made to a user of a commercial concession in case of non-compliance with the quality of goods (works, services) that are sold (performed, provided) by a user. A commercial concession agreement may be amended in accordance with the provisions established by Article 188 hereof. If a rightholder or a user is declared insolvent, the agreement shall be terminated. Relations arising from the use of the rights of other economic entities in business activities shall be regulated by this Code and other laws. The state shall guarantee equal protection for all foreign economic activity entities. Government authorities and local governments shall have no right to interfere in the operational activities of foreigneconomic activity entities, except in cases provided for by law. The list and powers of government authorities regulating foreign economic. activity, as well as the forms of its state regulation and control, shall be determined by this Code. Foreign economic activity entities shall be entitled to conclude any foreign economic agreements (contracts), except for those prohibited by the legislation of Ukraine. The form and procedure for concluding a foreign economic agreement (contract) shall be regulated by the Law of Ukraine “On Private International Law” and other laws. Tax benefits granted exclusively to foreign economic activity entities that export scientific, high-tech products on an ongoing basis. Tax rates shall be established and abolished in accordance with tax laws. Foreign economic activity entity shall provide information on the use of their foreign currency accounts to the tax authorities. Foreigneconomic activity entities shall obtain foreign currency loans from foreign financial institutions on the contractual basis. The state shall protect the rights and legitimate interests of foreign economic activity entities outside Ukraine. The types of property that cannot be pledged in the event of obtaining a foreign currency loan from a foreign financial institution shall be determined by law. The law may provide for special measures to protect the national commodity producers from dumping imports. Prohibition or restriction of any form of foreign investment may be effected exclusively by law. The law may restrict or prohibit the activities of foreign investors and enterprises with foreign investments in certain sectors of the economy or within certain territories of Ukraine based on the concerns of the national security of Ukraine. Relations arising in connection with the acquisition by a foreign investor of property rights to land and other natural resources in Ukraine shall be governed by the land and others legislation. The procedure for establishing enterprises with foreign investments and foreign enterprises shall be governed by this Code and other laws adopted under it. Specific aspects of creating banking, insurance and other financial institutions with the participation of a foreign investor shall be determined by the respective laws. Government authorities and their officials shall not have the right to requisition foreign investments. Relations arising from foreign investment in Ukraine shall be governed by this Code, the law on the foreign investment, other legislative acts and current international treaties. A special (free) economic zone shall be deemed a part of the territory of Ukraine with a special legal regulation of economic activity. Preferential customs, tax, currency, financial and other terms for entrepreneurship of domestic and foreign investors may be introduced. Special (free) economic zones of various functional types may be created in the territory of Ukraine. The state shall guarantee economic entities of the special ( free) economic zone the right to export profits and investments outside this zone and the borders of Ukraine in accordance with law. Sea areas externally adjacent to the territorial sea of Ukraine, including areas around the islands belonging to it, shall constitute the exclusive (sea)Economic zone of Ukraine The width of the exclusive (sea) economic zone shall make up to two hundred nautical miles, counted from the same starting lines as the territorial sea of Ukraine. The state shall have an exclusive right to create, as well as permit and regulate the construction, operation and use of artificial islands, installations and structures for marine scientific research. Only non-commercial (non-profit) economic activities shall be conducted in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The law shall establishe additional requirements for the implementation of economic activities and social guarantees for employees working in the territories radioactively contaminated as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Economic activity under a state of emergency is a special legal regime for the activities of government authorities and local governments. The rules of this Article on conducting economic activities shall also apply in the event of declaring certain areas as zones of an environmental emergency. The introduction of special economic modes that are not provided for in this Code, which establish restrictions on the rights of economic entities, shall not be allowed. Enact that the Economic Code of Ukraine shall apply to the economic relations that have arisen after the effective date of its provisions in accordance with this Section. The provisions of the Economic code of Ukraine regarding liability for violations of the rules of economic activity, as well as for violation of economic obligations, shall apply provided these violations have been committed after theeffective date of these provisions. During the lockdown introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (COVID-19), the terms defined in Articles 232, 269, 322, 324 hereof shall be extended for the duration of such lockdown. Should a borrower fail to perform its monetary obligation during the period of lockdown, a borrower shall be released from the obligation to pay a penalty, fine, penalty fee for such delay in favour of a creditor.