This Law determines state policy on the development of the grain market as a priority sector of the agro-industrial complex of Ukraine. The Law is aimed at the creation of legal, economic and organisational conditions for the competitive production of grain. It also aims to ensure the state’s domestic demand for food, seed and coarse grain. Grain shall mean fruits of cereals, legumes and oil crops used for food, seed, fodder and industrial purposes. Food grain shall mean grain used for processing and manufacture of food products. Industrial grain will mean grain intended for industrial processing into other products (alcohol, starch, medicines, etc.) Grain market shall mean a system of goods-money relations arising between its participants in the course of grain production, storage, trade and use. Free competition, free choice of grain selling destinations and pricing, as well as state control over grain quality and storage. System of guaranteeing the fulfilment of obligations under warehouse documents for grain. The main principles of the state policy on grain market regulation shall be: ensuring the state’s domestic demand for food, seed, coarse and industrial grain, as well as measures to increase its export. The grain yield shall be subject to insurance carried out by agricultural producers of all forms of ownership and legal forms under the law. Ukraine’s grain supplies shall include: the grain in the state reserve seed pool; grain market participants’ own grain supplies. It is forbidden to establish restrictions on the movement of grain and grain processing products. Grain declaration shall mean the activity of grain storage entities in determining the volume of grain in storage. Grain and grain processing products recognized as unsuitable for food following laboratory tests shall be subject to examination to decide on the possibility of their further use or destruction. Costs associated with the transportation, storage, examination or destruction of grain and grainprocessing products unsuitable to food shall be paid by the relevant owner of the grain. When accepting grain for storage, the grain storage facility shall be obliged to test its quality. Grain storage facility shall be a public warehouse and shall be obliged to accept grain from any person/ entity for storage. A grain warehouse storage agreement shall be made in writing, which is confirmed by the issuance of a warehouse document to the grain owner. The grain storage fee and deadlines for payment thereof shall be provided in the grain storage agreement. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall set the maximum fee (tariff) for storing the grain purchased for the state budget funds. A grain storage facility that undertook to take grain for storage for the period specified in the grain warehouse storage agreement shall not be entitled to demand the relevant grain depositing. The grain storage facility shall be liable for the loss, shortage or damage to the grain accepted for storage in the manner provided for by law. The Guarantee Fund shall operate in compliance with the law of Ukraine. If grain quality changed due to damage so much that it cannot be used for its original purpose, the depositor may reject the grain. Grain storage facilities shall be obliged to maintain a register of the grain accepted for storage. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall determine the requirements for the grain register and the procedure for maintaining thereof. To confirm the grain acceptance, a grain storage facility shall issue one of the following documents: double warehouse certificate; regular warehouse certificate. Both parts of the double warehouse certificate for grain must contain the title/name and location/residence of the legal entity/individual that/who granted the loan. The right to claim the first endorser of the pledge certificate shall expire upon the receipt of funds. A document not complying with the requirements of this article shall not be a double warehouse certificates. A regular warehouse certificate must contain the information provided for in clauses 1, 2, 4–8, part 2 of Article 38 hereof, as well as an indication that it is issued to the bearer. A document not complying with the requirements of this article shall not be a regular warehouse Certificate. If the grain is accepted for storage for exoneration, a corresponding entry shall be made in the regular warehouse certificates. The grain storage facility shall issue the grain to the holder of the warehouse and pledge certificate (double warehouse certificate) only in exchange for both certificates provided together. If the warehouse certificate holder possesses no pledge certificate but has paid the debt thereunder, the grain storage Facility shall issue grain to such a holder. The Grain Storage Facility shall be obliged to cancel accepted warehouse documents for grain by marking them as ‘cancelled’ The key targets of the Guarantee Fund shall include: minimisation of risks of grain market participants; ensuring the protection of rights of warehouse documents for grain holders in case of non-fulfilment of obligations by grain storage facilities; guaranteeing the reimbursement of the grain value under warehouse documents. The Guarantee Fund’s Administration Board shall determine the grain value reimbursement amount annually, by 30 July. The price approved in such a way cannot be changed until the beginning of the next calendar year. The exclusive grounds for refusal to reimburse the value of grain transferred to the member (temporary member) of the guarantee fund are those who have audited the grain storage facility during the last three years. The unit price of grain of each class and type may not be less than the average grain price in Ukraine for the period from 30 July of the previous year to the approval date. If the grain unit price determined in accordance with part 2 hereof is higher than the market prices for grain in the area where the insolvent grain storage facility’s granary is located, the Guarantee Fund shall be entitled to deviate from the procedure for reimbursing. The Guarantee Fund shall be entitled to participate in inspections carried out by other government authorities on matters falling within its competence. The scope, form and procedure for the provision of information by members (temporary members) to the guarantee fund will be established. The Guarantee fund shall be obliged to comply with the requirements of the law on commercial secrecy regarding the information that became known in the course of its operation. The state represented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall be the founder of the Guarantee Fund. Grain storage facilities registered as of 1 January of the year following the year of the guarantee fund's establishment shall become temporary members. The guarantee fund’s annual report must be confirmed by an independent audit organization. The provision of grain storage services to individuals and legal entities with the issuance of warehouse documents for grain by persons not being the members (temporary members) of the guarantees fund shall be prohibited. To become a member (temporary member) of the Guarantee Fund and obtain the right to operate as a grain storage facility, a person shall be obliged to submit an application. Non-compliance of the applicant’s granary with the mandatory requirements may constitute exclusive grounds for a refusal to accept the entity/individual. Grain storage facilities must comply with the law of Ukraine and the requirements of the Guarantee Fund to its members, to properly fulfil their obligations to depositors and to fairly compete in the grain storage services market. Grain storage facilities shall be obliged to pay contributions to the guarantee Fund until the complete fulfilment of obligations to holders of warehouse documents for grain. A grain storage facility transferred to the category of temporary participants of the Guarantee Fund shall be obliged to place the information on its transfer in all premises accessible to the depositors and holders of warehouse documents for grain. Additional supervision over the operation of the grainstorage facility shall be established. The exclusion from the temporary membership of the guarantee fund shall mean the exclusion from its membership. The Guarantee Fund for the Fulfilment of Obligations Under Warehouse Documents for Grain shall independently manage its operation. Members (temporary members) of the Guarantees Fund shall be entitled to challenge the deeds of the Fund if they are adopted contrary to the law. The funds of the guarantee fund shall not be included in the State Budget of Ukraine. The funds of the Guarantee Fund must cover at least 10 and not more than 20 per cent of the total value of grain under the warehouse documents for grain issued by grain storage facilities being members (temporary members) of the guarantee Fund in the previous year. The amount of a membership fee shall be fixed. Regular contributions shall be paid in the amount depending on the quantity of grain accepted for storage. The state shall provide a loan from the state budget in the amount determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Special contributions of the Guarantee Fund members (temporary members) shall be paid to reimburse the losses of warehouse documents for grain holders. Decisions on the payment of special contributions as well as on the procedure for determining their amount and paying shall be taken by the general meeting of the guarantee fund members. The Administration Board shall coordinate the operation of the Guarantee Fund in terms of protection of the interests of depositors and holders of warehouse documents for grain. It shall also monitor and supervise the operation and make decisions within its competence. The day-to-day operation of the Guarantee Fund shall be managed by the Directorate. The Administration Board of the Guarantee Fund shall consist of three persons appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Decisions of the general meetings of the Guarantee Fund members shall be binding on other management bodies. The votes of each guarantee fund member shall be counted annually by the Directorate. The decision of the general meeting of the Guarantee Fund members shall be deemed adopted if more than 50 per cent of the votes have voted for such a decision. The Audit Committee shall consist of three members elected for three years by the guarantee Fund’s Administration Board from among the persons nominated by the Guarantees Fund members. The Guarantee Fund for the Fulfilment of Obligations under Warehouse Documents for Grain shall be terminated by the decision of the general meeting of the Guarantee fund members. The State Agent for Export and Import of Grain and Grain Processing Products under international treaties shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on a competitive basis. Ukraine’s international cooperation within the scope of this Law shall be achieved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as central and local executive bodies. Within their competence, they shall ensure the implementation of measures for the integration of Ukraine into the European Union in terms of the grain market.