Family is a primary and core unit of the society. Spouses shall be considered a family even when they do not live together due to studies, work, medical treatment, having to care for their parents or children or for any other valid reasons. A single person shall have the rights of a family member. A person who has reached the age of marriage may start their own family. The state shall protect the family, childhood, maternity and paternity, and shall contribute to the strengthening of the family. Everyone has the right to live with their family. A person may be forcedly isolated from their family only in cases and according to the procedure contemplated by applicable law. The state shall ensure that family child care is a priority. Family relations shall be governed under the principles of justice, good faith and reasonability. Every participant of family relations may seek protection in court. The court resolving the family dispute may take into consideration a relevant local custom as well as the custom of the ethnic minority to which a party or the parties belong. International treaties that govern family relations and are ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine are a part of the national family legislation of Ukraine. If a duly executed international treaty of Ukraine contains any provisions that are in conflict with any family regulation, the relevant international treaty shall prevail. Chapter 2 THE EXERCISE OF FAMILY RIGHTS AND FAMILY DUTIES. A person may request the guardianship agency to support their family rights and interests. A decision made by the agency shall be binding unless the relevant person went to a court for the protection of their rights or interests within ten days upon the award of such decision. The court may disagree with the opinion if it is insufficiently motivated or is in conflict with the child's interests. Marriage is a family union of a woman and a man duly registered with the state civil registration office. Neither the woman nor the man shall be forced to marry. Monogamous marriage requires an unforced consent of the woman and the man. Full and half siblings may not marry each other. Cousins, aunts, uncles and nephews and nieces can't marry. The court may award the right to marry to the biological child of the adoptive parent and the adopted child, and to the children adopted by such parent. Adoptive parent and adopted child may not marry each other. The partners must inform each other of their health condition. The state shall provide appropriate conditions for medical check of the couple. The partner who refused to marry must reimburse the other partner any and all costs and expenses incurred in preparation for the marriage registration and wedding. The partner who received a gift in connection with the future marriage refuses to marry. The gift agreement may be terminated by court upon request of the giver. Marriage carries certain legal implications for the couple. If the partner has a double last name as of the time of the marriage registration, they may replace either part of their last name with the last name of the other partner. A marriage that is entered into by a person who is already in a registered marriage shall be void. A marriage may not be declared void if any circumstances that evidenced the person's unwillingness to marry or create a family are no longer valid as of the time of the court proceedings. A marriage may be declared null and void if entered into by the adoptive parent and the adopted child in violation of Part 5, Article 26 of this Code; 2) between cousins; between aunt/uncle and nephew/niece; 3) with a person who concealed their serious disease or any disease that was dangerous for the other spouse and their descendants. A void marriage as defined in Article 39 of this Code, including a marriage declared void by the court, shall not be considered as the grounds for the spousal rights and obligations. If the persons have acquired any assets during the void marriage it shall be deemed their partial joint property. The marriage record of the state civil registration office shall be revoked by a court order. The wife has the right to maternity. The husband's unwillingness or inability to have a child may be the grounds for termination of the marriage. The pregnant wife shall enjoy an environment in the family that is good for her health. The mother shall have the ability to combine maternity and the exercise of any other rights and obligations. Wife and husband must jointly take care of the well-being of the family. Wife and husband may choose their place of residence at their own discretion. Forcing to terminate or stay in marriage, or forcing to have sex through physical or psychological violence, is an abuse of the right of wife or husband to freedom and personal inviolability. Court may recognise that the other spouse is eligible to get a portion of such bonus or award if it is duly established that the actions of such other spouse contributed to it. Money obtained as compensation for any lost or damaged belonging or compensation for the moral damage sustained by either spouse shall be in their private ownership. The wife and the husband shall have equal rights to own, possess, use and manage any belongings owned jointly by them unless otherwise agreed by them. Professional tools (such as musical instruments, office equipment, medical equipment etc.) acquired in marriage for either spouse shall be deemed jointly owned by the spouses. Right of the spouses to decide on the property use. Spouses may split the property in their joint ownership regardless of the marriage dissolution. Agreement for splitting a residential house, apartment or any other real estate or for segregation of any real estate out of the couple's joint property to either spouse must be certified by a notary. Any property that is jointly owned by the spouses shall be divided in kind. If the spouses have not reached agreement on how to split the assets, the dispute may be resolved in court. Items that cannot be divided shall be awarded to either spouse unless otherwise agreed between them. The limitation period of 3 years applies to a property division claim brought following the divorce. Only the personal property of either spouse and their share in the property jointly owned by the spouses where such share is segregated to them in kind may be foreclosed. In case of reimbursement of damage caused by a criminal offence committed by either spouse foreclosure may apply to the property acquired during the marriage. A former spouse is entitled to maintenance if they became incapacitated prior to the divorce or within one year upon the day of the divorce. A person shall also be entitled to spousal maintenance if. they gained any disabilities even upon the expiry of one-year term after the divorce, if. the disability has resulted from the illegal behaviour of their ex-spouse. Alimony awarded by court may later be amended by court judgment based on a statement of claim filed by the payer or the receiver. List of types of income that is considered for the purpose of awarding alimony to either spouse, children, parents or other persons is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Court may deprive either spouse of the right to maintenance or restrict its duration, if: 1) spouses were married for a short period of time; 2) the spouse who is in need of material support has become incapacitated due to a criminal offence intentionally committed by such spouse; 3) incapacitation or serious illness of the spouse was concealed from the other spouse. Right to maintenance envisaged by Article 86 of this Code shall terminate if the child was given up to another person or in case of the child's death. Right to maintenance shall continue in force throughout the entire period of living with and caring for the child with disabilities regardless of the financial status of the parent the child lives with. If partners who are not married to each other have been living together as a family for a long time the partner who became incapable while living together shall be entitled to maintenance in accordance with Article of this Code. A marriage contract governs material relations of the spouses and defines their property rights and obligations. The marriage contract must identify the assets provided by either spouse for the common needs of the family as well as the legal grounds for the use of any assets given to the couple on the occasion of the marriage registration. The parties may agree that Article 60 of this Code shall not apply to any assets acquired by them during the marriage and that such assets shall be deemed their common property or personal property of each one of them. Neither party may withdraw from the marriage contract unilaterally. The marriage contract may be modified by the competent court on demand of either spouse if this is caused by their vital interests, interests of their children or incapable adult daughter/son. The spouses who do not have children may file an application for divorce with the civil registration office. If either spouse cannot apply for a divorce at the civil registration office personally for a valid reason, the other spouse may file such application, duly certified by a notary or having an equivalent level of authorisation. Marriage shall be terminated regardless of any property disputes between the spouses. Sham divorce may be declared a sham divorce based on sufficient evidence that the spouses continued living together. Divorce may not be filed during the wife's pregnancy and within one year upon the childbirth, except where either spouse is demonstrating illegal behaviour. The custodian may file a divorce petition for the sake of the spouse recognised as incapacitated. The person who changed their last name following the marriage registration may choose to continue using that last name or revert to their pre-marriage last name. The court judgment awarding a divorce that has become fully effective and enforceable shall be the document certifying the divorce awarded by court. A person may marry again following the marriage termination certified by the Divorce Certificate or the relevant court judgment. If the person declared missing or presumed dead is back, their marriage with the other spouse may be restored. The child born within ten months following the marriage termination of annulment shall be deemed to be the child of the spouses. The spouses or former spouses may file to the state civil registration office a joint statement of non-acknowledgement the husband or former husband as the child's father. When the child's mother and father are not married to each other, maternity shall be established on the basis of the document issued by the healthcare facility and certifying the childbirth by the mother. If no application referred to in Article 126 of this Code has been submitted, paternity regarding the child may be recognised by the court. Grounds for recognising paternity shall be any evidence of the certain person being the father. A person who claims that he is the father of a child born by a woman who was married to another man at the time of the child's conception or birth, may file a paternity claim against her husband. The limitation period of one year shall apply to the paternity recognition claim, such limitation period commencing on the day when the person became or could become aware of being a child's mother. Paternity may only be challenged upon the birth of the child and before the child attains the age of majority. Paternity may not be challenged after the death of the person registered as the child's father. If a person is not married, the mother's last name and citizenship shall be entered in the Birth Registration Book for the child as the relevant information about their father. A woman who gave birth to a child in wedlock may challenge the paternity of her husband. Limitation period of one year shall apply to the mother's claim to make any changes in the childbirth registration record. Maternity may not be challenged in the cases referred to in Part 2 and Part 3 of Article 123 of this Code. The children shall have equal rights in regards to the parents whether or not they were married to each other. Termination of the marriage between the parents or them living apart from the child shall not affect the scope of their rights. The parents must register the birth of the child with the state civil registration office. The child's birth shall be registered by the state civil registration office that shall concurrently decide on the child's origin, last name, first name and patronymic. The child may be given no more than two names, unless otherwise derives from the customs of the ethnic minority to which their mother or father belongs. Change of the first name, last name and/or patronymic of the child requires the approval of the caregiver. In case either parent objects to the change, the dispute may be resolved by the guardianship agency. The parents must care for the child's health and their physical, mental and moral development. The parents must make sure that the child gets complete general secondary education and is ready to live separately. The parents must respect the child. Giving custodial authority to other persons shall not release the parents of the parental care duty. Physical punishment of the child by the parents, including the use of any other forms of punishment that are humiliating human dignity, shall be prohibited. The underage parents have the same scope of rights and obligations regarding the child as the adult parents. The underage parents who have reached the age of 14 may seek the protection of their child's rights and interests in court. Evasion of parental obligation may lead to being hold liable in accordance with the applicable law. The parent who was awarded to be the resident parent by the court judgment or opinion of the guardianship agency shall resolve any matters related to travelling outside Ukraine. This includes medical treatment, education, participation of the child in children's competitions, festivals, scientific shows, student Olympiads and contests, environmental, technical, art, tourism, research and sports events, child's recreation abroad. The court shall determine the forms of participation of either parent in the child-rearing (such as periodical or systematic visitation, travelling together, the child visiting the home of such parent, etc.) The person who is evading from complying with the court judgment must reimburse the material and moral damage sustained by the non-resident parent. Place of residence of the child under the age of ten shall be determined mutually by the parents. In case the mother and the father who live separately are unable to reach an agreement on with whom the minor will live, the dispute may be resolved by the guardianship agency or the court. Dispute regarding the place of residence shall be resolved with due regard to the parents' attitude to their duties. The parents have a prevailing right over any other persons to have the minor live with them. The court may reject taking the minor away and handing the minor over to either parent or both parents if this is in conflict with the minor's interests. The mother/father may be deprived of parental rights under Clauses 2, 4 and 5, Part 1 of this Article. Parent, guardian, caregiver, foster parent, health care facility, educational setting or any other child care centre where the child is staying, guardianship agency, prosecutor, or the child themselves may file a claim to a court to terminate parental rights. Person whose parental rights were terminated shall: 1) lose any and all personal non-property rights related to the child. The mother/father whose parental rights were terminated may apply to court for a permission to see the child. If the child cannot be given to the other parent, the grandparents, adult siblings, other relatives of the child including step-parents shall have a preferential right for raising the child, upon their written request. The court may award an order to take the child away from the parent(s) without terminating their parental rights in cases referred to in Clauses 2 to 5, Part 1, Article 164 of this Code. In exceptional cases where there is a direct threat to the child's life or health, the guardianship agency or the prosecutor may award a judgment. The court may also make a decision on the child support. The adult child must give care and support their parents. The adult child may seek the protection of the rights and interests of their incapable parents as their lawful representatives. The child's title to the property intended for their development, education and upbringing shall be owned by the child. The right of the parents and children to use the residential property owned by any of them shall be governed by applicable law. The parents of the minor may not do any of the following regarding the minor's property rights without the relevant authorisation from the guardianship agency: execute any deeds that must be certified by a notary and/or are subject to the state registration. If the minor is capable of defining their needs and interests, the parents shall manage their property. Parents shall manage the child's property jointly unless otherwise envisaged by the applicable agreement made by and between them. Transactions carried out by either parent where any vehicles and real estate of the minor are involved shall require written consent of the other parent certified by the notary. If the parent has been living apart from the child for at least six months and is not involved in the child-rearing, or when their location is unknown, the transactions referred to in the second recital of this Part may be executed without their consent. Poor performance by the parents of their duty to manage the children's property shall be grounds for their obligation to reimburse them. The parents must provide for the child until the child reaches the age of majority. The court may award a judgment whereby the child support amount (alimony) is awarded as a share of the child's mother/father income. In case either parent moves abroad for permanent residence in a country with which Ukraine does not have a legal aid agreement in place child support shall be collected according to the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers. The amount of child support must be adequate and sufficient for the appropriate development of the child. Minimum guaranteed amount of support per one child must be at least 50% of the subsistence wage for a child of the relevant age. Minimum recommended child support per. one child shall be equivalent to the subsistence level for the child of. therelevant age and may be awarded by the court. The court determines the single share of the mother's/father's income that shall be collected for the support of the children until the eldest child reaches the age of majority. The amount of child support determined by the court or agreed between the parents as a fixed amount shall be subject to annual indexation in accordance with applicable law. The guardianship agency shall supervise the spending of child support through inspection visits to the receiver. In case the child support spending is not in line with the intended purpose, the payer may apply to the court and file a claim to reduce the amount of alimony. The parents may be released from the obligation to provide for the child if the child's income is significantly higher. The parents may enter into the child support agreement that would govern the amount and timings for such payments. The parents may be released from the obligation to provide for the child by virtue of the court order only. If the child is no longer receiving income or their income was reduced, the interested person may apply to the court for the collection of child support. The amount of child support set by the court judgment or as agreed between the parents may be reduced or increased later. The agreement executed in accordance with Part 1 of this Article may be terminated if the resident parent is in default of their obligation to provide for the child. The court may order child support to be paid retroactively for no longer than ten years. Arrears for child support collected under Article 187 of this Code shall be paid under the payer's application by means of deduction from their salary/pension or stipend, or shall be collected under the court judgment. Child support arrears ordered as a share of income shall be determined based on the actual income obtained by the payers during the period in which the child support was not collected. The court may reduce the amount of the late payment fine with due regard to the payer's financial and marital status. The parents must provide for their adult incapable daughter/son who is in need of financial assistance; provided, however, that they are capable of doing so. The additional payments shall be deemed overdue if the. payer has failed to make such additional payments on time. The court shall determine the amount of child support for the adult daughter/son as a fixed amount and/or as a share of the payer's income. Right to maintenance shall terminate if the studies are terminated. The resident parent as well as the child themselves provided that they are still studying may apply to the court. The court shall set the amount of parental maintenance as a fixed amount and/or a share of the income with due regard of the financial and marital status of the parties. In exceptional cases the court may award an order for the daughter/son to pay maintenance for the period that would be no longer than three years. Non-payment of child support that resulted in an outstanding amount that is larger than all relevant payments for three years shall be evidenced. The child who was not taken from the maternity hospital or was abandoned, or was found may be adopted upon reaching the age of two months. Adoptive parents may be spouses or persons referred to in Part 5 and Part 6 of this Article. The adoptive parent must be a capable person at least twenty-one years old, except where the adoptive parent is the relative of the child.  persons who were previously adoptive parents (or guardians, custodians or foster parents as applicable) of another child but the adoption was terminated or annulled through their fault. Persons who are registered with or being treated at a neuropsychological or drug treatment department; 6) persons who are addicted to drugs or alcohol; 7) persons not have a permanent place of residence and stable income. Directors of facilities where children who may be adopted or given in custody, guardianship or placed in a foster family are housed must report this to relevant departments. In case no one volunteered to adopt the child or have the child in custody the information will be sent to the central executive agency implementing the state policy on adoption and protection of children's rights. The child shall be adopted upon the unforced consent of their parents. The consent of the parents to adoption of the child must be unconditional. Any agreement envisaging the adoptive parent to pay for the child's adoption to their parents, caregivers or other persons living with the child will be null and void. Adoption may be awarded without the consent of the guardian/custodian or the guardianship agency, if the court has established that adoption meets the child's best interests. Adoption application may be revoked pending the entry into force of the court judgment awarding the adoption. The child may not reject adoption on the grounds that the person already has a child or may give birth to a child. When awarding the adoption of the adult person, the court shall consider the motives why the persons are willing the adoption to happen. The adopted child shall have the right to keep the fact of adoption confidential, including for themselves. Information about the adoption shall be disclosed by the court only upon consent of the adoptive parent unless such information is required to law enforcement authorities or the court in connection with a civil case or criminal proceedings. The child's name may be changed upon request of adoptive parents. Such change requires the child's consent. Adopted child's first name, last name and patronymic may be changed in connection with the adoption based on the application of the adoptive parent and the person adopted. If the adoptive father is registered as the child' father, the child's Patronymic will change accordingly. Adoption imposes the rights and obligations upon the adopted child regarding the adoptive parents. Adoption declared void shall be annulled as of its inception. In case adoption is declared void, the rights and obligations between the child and their biological parents and other relatives shall be restored. The child may elect to continue using the first name, last name and patronymic that they were given in connection with being adopted. Court may award to annul adoption in the following cases: 1) adoption is not supporting the child's interests and does not provide the child with family care; 2) the child has a mental disorder or other serious disease that cannot be cured and the adoptive parent was not and could not be aware of that at the time of adoption. Adoption may not be annulled after the child reaches the age of majority. The child may continue to have the first name, last name and patronymic they received upon being adopted. The court must within one month send a copy of the judgment to the state civil registration office at the child's place of residence. An adult capable person may become the child guardian or custodian. The child in custody or guardianship shall have the right to: 1) live in the family of their guardian/custodian and receive care from them; 2) appropriate conditions for their comprehensive development, education, care and respect to their human dignity. In case the child does not have an accommodation, they may get it in accordance with applicable law. Placing the child to the facility referred to in Part 1 of this Article shall not terminate the child's right to alimony, pension, other social benefits and compensation for loss of the caregiver. Civil rights and obligations of the guardian/caregiver shall be governed by the Civil Code of Ukraine. The period for placing the child in a foster family shall be defined by the guardianship agency and may not exceed three months. The overall duration of the child's stay in the foster family may not be longer than six months. Only the children who are full siblings or who were brought up in the same family may be placed concurrently. The child placed in the foster family shall have other rights governed by applicable law. While the child is staying in a foster family, they shall retain their right to alimony, pension, social allowance and compensation. The foster parent must: 1) provide the child with accommodation, clothing, food etc.; 2) create appropriate conditions for the child's education. Orphan children and children deprived of parental care who have disabilities may, at their own discretion, continue to live in the adoptive family until they reach the age of twenty-three. Adopted children shall retain their right to alimony, pension, other social benefits and compensation for the loss of caregiver. Foster care alumni are orphan children and children deprived of parental care. Alumni shall live and study in the foster home until they reach the age of 18. Foster care alumni shall retain their right to alimony, pension, other social benefits and compensation for the loss of caregiver. A decision to establish a foster home shall be made by the raion state administrations, city district administrations in Kyiv and Sevastopol. The grandparents/great-grandparents may communicate with and get involved in raising their grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Siblings, whether or not full, shall have the rights and obligations envisaged by the applicable law. Step-mother/step-father may be involved in raising minor/underage step-child. Siblings and step-parents must provide care to those who were raising them and providing them with financial support. Obligation of the person to provide care for grandparents, great-grandparents and persons with whom they lived as a family. The step-parent must provide for the minor/underage step-child with whom they are living, if they do not have parents/grandparents/adult siblings. The persons whose family fostered the child must provide the child with financial support if the child doesn't have parents, grandparents or adult siblings. The step-child becomes obliged to provide for the step-parent if they do not have spouse/adult child/siblings. The amount of maintenance collected from other family members and relatives for the benefit of the children and incapable adult persons who are in need of financial assistance shall be set as a share of income or as a fixed amount. A child who is a citizen of Ukraine but resides outside Ukraine shall be adopted by a citizen. Adoption by a foreign national requires the consent of the central executive agency implementing the state policy on adoption and protection of children's rights. A preference is given to the foreign nationals who are: Ukrainian citizens. Adoption of a child by a foreign national requires the consent of the central executive agency implementing the state policy on adoption and protection of children's rights. The adopted child shall have the right to maintain their national identity in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other applicable international instruments. The scope of the child's rights must be at least equal to the scope of rights envisaged by the applicable laws. This Code shall become effective immediately as the Civil Code of Ukraine becomes effective. The following regulations and instrument shall become invalid upon the entry of the Family Code into force. Procedure for supervision for the protection of rights of the children adopted by foreign nationals and residing outside Ukraine shall be set out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The relevant consular section shall register these children and supervise that they rights are duly respected. During the lockdown introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), the periods referred to in Article 72, Article 128, Article 129 and Article 139 of this Code shall be extended for the duration of such lockdown. The Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall submit its proposals on amendments to the Laws of Ukraine deriving from this Code.