This Law defines the legal, economic and organisational basis for the functioning of the drinking water supply system. It is aimed at guaranteed provision of the citizens with high-quality drinking water safe for human health. Drinking water is meant for human consumption (tap, packaged, from pump rooms, bottling points and shaft wells)  drinking water supply standards – the estimated amount of drinking water necessary to ensure the drinking, physiological, sanitary and hygienic and household needs of one person during the day in a specific settlement. non-centralised drinking water Supply – providing individual consumers with drinking water from drinking water sources, using water bottling points (including mobile ones) and/or the production of packaged drinking water. centralised wastewater disposal enterprise – a business entity operating centralising wastewater disposal facilities/systems. Drinking water supply system – a set of technical means, including networks, structures, equipment (devices), for centralised and non-centralised drinking water supply. Bottling point – the place of spillage of drinking water (from tank trucks, wells, capturing, etc.) into the consumer's container. Technical specifications – set of conditions and requirements for engineering support of water supply and wastewater disposal systems, which must meet its design parameters. The operation of this Law shall apply to all economic entities producing drinking water, providing cities, other settlements, stand-alone facilities with drinking water through centralised drinking water supply or using water bottling points (including mobile ones) The use of installations (devices), other means of non-centralised water supply, providing wastewater disposal services, as well as on state authorities and local authorities that regulate, supervise and control the quality of drinking water.  guaranteed priority provision of drinking water for the population to ensure drinking, physiological, sanitary, hygienic and domestic needs. Regulated technologies for the drinking water production, standards for wastewater treatment, as well as measuring instruments and methods of assessment in the relevant standards, technologies, means and methods adopted in the EU. State support in the field of drinking water, water supply and wastewater disposal shall be provided in accordance with the amount of funds provided for by the law of Ukraine. The guarantees of citizens rights to drinking water supply during their stay on vehicles for more than three hours are provided by the owners of vehicles. Every consumer of drinking water is guaranteed by the state the right of free access to information on the drinking water quality. The central executive authority that implements state policy in the field of housing and utility services annually shall prepare and publish the National Report on the quality of Drinking Water in Ukraine. The powers of the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of housing and utility services shall include: ensuring the realisation of scientific research. The National Commission, carrying out state regulation in the fields of energy and utilities. Ministries and other central executive authorities participate in the development and implementation of state policy within the limits of their powers. The powers of local authority in the field of drinking water, water supply and wastewater disposal shall include: projects approval of urban planning programmes, master plans for the development of settlements, other urban planning documentation. Approval of local regulations for wastewater collection into centralised wastewater disposal systems of the relevant settlements. Approving of the population equivalent of a settlement, vulnerable and less vulnerable zones. Ukrainian law: Control over the quality of drinking water, use and protection of sources and systems. tariff setting for centralised water supply and wastewater disposal services. Discharge of sewage waters into water bodies is allowed only if the standards for maximum permissible concentrations and standards formaximum permissible discharge of pollutants are observed. Local authority provides free access to approved local regulations for individuals and legal entities. Privatisation of state-owned enterprises providing drinking water supply shall be carried out under the law. Networks, structures, equipment for centralised water supply and wastewater disposal in settlements as especially important life support facilities are not subject to privatisation. Economic activities in the field of drinking water supply include: centralised drinking water. supply to cities and other settlements. Drinking water supply using drinking water bottling points (including mobile ones) Production of packaged drinking water; drinking water Supply using individual and collective installations (devices) for the drinking water preparation. Special water use shall be carried out by virtue of a permit issued in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. When using groundwater for drinking water supply, the relevant enterprise must obtain a permit for the subsoil use under the law. Business entities in the field of centralised water supply and wastewater disposal shall open special accounts in order to carry out settlements for investment programmes. The procedure for monitoring the implementation of investment programmes in the field of centralised water supply and wastewater disposal shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers Ukraine. It is prohibited to foreclose and seize funds in special accounts. The owner of the special account for credit funds shall ensure control and is responsible for the targeted use of funds. Contract on the drinking water supply provision and/or wastewater disposal services shall be concluded directly between the drinkingWater supply enterprise or a legal or natural person authorised by it and the consumer specified in the first part of this article. Procedure for providing consumers with drinking water. service shall be established by the central executive authority ensuring the formation of state policy in. the field of housing and utility services. Drinking water consumers are obliged to: pay in a timely manner for the used drinking water in accordance with the established tariffs for centralised water supply and wastewater disposal services. Make efficient use of drinking water, prevent its leaks from internal networks and equipment; prevent pollution, clogging and depletion of Drinking water supply sources.  issue permits and technical specifications for connecting consumers to centralised water supply and wastewater disposal systems. restrict or terminate the operation of centralised drinking water supply facilities in the event of the need for a prompt response to the deterioration of water quality. water supply for fire-fighting needs. adoption of the advanced technologies for the production of drinking water, wastewater disposal and wastewater treatment. In the event of man-made or natural issue emergencies leading to the termination of centralised water supply to consumers, the heads of drinking water supply enterprises are obliged to inform the authorities exercising state control. The approval of safety indicators and certain indicators of. drinking water quality shall be carried out by the central executive authority. The approval of safety indicators and certain indicators of drinking water quality that are not established in the documents of the relevant international organisations and the European Union, shall be carried out only after scientific justification. The central executive authority, forming and ensuring the implementation of the state policy in the field of health care, revises safety indicators once every five years. The procedure for the development and approval of technical specifications in the field of drinking water and drinking water supply shall be established by the central executive authority. Sanitary protection zones and zones of special regime shall be. established by local authorities in agreement with the central. executive authority implementing the state policy in the. field of water management. The influence of potential sources-groundwater pollutants located within the second and third zones of the sanitary protection zone will be determined by studying the migration of pollutants in the environment. With a significant technogenic load, constant monitoring studies shall be carried out. It is prohibited to locate, build, commission, operate and reconstruct enterprises, structures and other facilities where compliance with all requirements and implementation of measures provided for is not fully ensured. Within the second belt of the sanitary protection zone, it is prohibited: placement of fuel and lubricant warehouse, pesticides and mineral fertilizers, storage tanks for industrial wastewater, oil pipelines and product pipelines. Use of chemicals without the permission of the state sanitary and epidemiological service; placement of cemeteries, cattle burial grounds, sewage and filtration fields. Sanitary protection in the field of drinking water and drinking water supply shall be ensured by the central executive authority. State monitoring shall be carried out in order to collect, process, store and analyse information on the state of centralised drinking water facilities. State policy in the fields of water management and health care shall be implemented. State monitoring in the field of drinking water and drinking water supply shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. State statistical reporting shall be made in the forms approved by the central executive authority. Commissioning of new or reconstructed residential and non-residential buildings (structures) not equipped with drinking water metering units is prohibited. State, industrial and public control shall be carried out in the field of drinking water and drinking water supply. Water intended to satisfy drinking and household needs at all stages of its production and delivery to consumers will be subject to control. State control of the technical condition of centralised drinking water. supply shall be. carried out by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Liability for violation of the law in the field of drinking water and drinking water supply. Liability may be established by laws for other types of violation. Compensation for damages caused by violation of law in field of water, water supply and wastewater disposal. Failure to comply with mandatory instructions of officials. Water supply and wastewater disposal enterprises, harmed by legal entities or individuals as a result of the rule violation, will be compensated. The non-pecuniary damage (non-property) caused to the consumer, that is a violation of his legal rights, shall be compensated in the manner prescribed by law. Ukraine is introducing international legal arrangements to ensure the protection and rational use of drinking water supply sources under the international treaties.  submit the proposals for amendments to the laws arising from this Law to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine for scrutiny. ensure that ministries and other central executive authorities bring their regulatory acts in line with this Law. President of Ukraine L. KUCHMA City of Kyiv 10 January 2002 No. 2918-III.