This Law shall determine the conditions and procedure of immigration to Ukraine of foreigners and stateless persons. The issues of immigration shall be regulated by the Constitution of Ukraine, this Law and other regulatory acts not contradicting them. The immigration quota shall be set by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Immigration permits shall be issued in excess of the immigration quota to: 1) one of the spouses, if the second spouse, to whom the first one is married for more than two years, is a citizen of Ukraine. 2) individuals, who are custodians or guardians of citizens of Ukraine or are under custody/guardianship of citizens. 9) persons who have served in the Armed Forces of Ukraine for three and more years. Diplomatic missions and consular posts of Ukraine shall accept applications for immigration permits, accompanied by documents specified in this Law. A central executive authority shaping the state labour policy shall annually approve the list of professions and requirements to the qualification of specialists and workers the demand for whose services may be met through immigration. Other executive authorities shall ensure enforcement of legislation on immigration within their competence. If only one of two parents is immigrating, accompanied by minor children, must submit a notarised statement of another spouse that he/she does not object to immigration of children with their father (mother) In case of failure to grant such consent, the father/mother must submit decision of relevant government authority on stay of the children. 6) for persons specified in clause 6, part 2, Article 4 of this Law — copies of documents confirming their family relations with an immigrant and document confirming that the immigrant has no objections to their immigration and guarantees them finance support not lower than the subsistence income officially set in Ukraine. 7) for. persons specifying in clause 8, part 1, Article 3 of the Law — copy of a document confirming granting of the status of a person who suffered from human trafficking. 8) for people specified in Clause 9, part2, Article4 of the law — document confirming the fact of undergoing military service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The period for considering an application for immigration permit shall not exceed one year after the date of filing it. Immigration permits shall not be issued to: 1) persons who were sentenced to imprisonment for more than one year for acts recognised as crimes under the laws of Ukraine, unless their convictions were expunged and lifted in accordance with the procedure determined by the law. An immigration permit may be cancelled if: 1) it is found that an immigration permit was issued under deliberately false information, forged or invalid documents; 2) an immigrant was sentenced to imprisonment in Ukraine for more than one year and the court sentence entered into force; 3) actions of an immigrant endanger the national security of Ukraine and public order of Ukraine; 4) it's necessary for ensuring the healthcare, rights and legitimate interests of citizens of Ukraine. If immigration permit is cancelled and permanent residence permit is seized in connection with imprisonment under a court sentence, relevant persons must exit from Ukraine within one month after completion of his/her sentence. If a person whose application for immigration permit was denied has lost all other legitimate grounds for staying in Ukraine, he/she shall be subject to requirements of parts 2–4 of this Article. A person may reapply for an immigration permit no earlier than one year after the date of making the previous decision.  foreigners and stateless persons who were forced to leave their places of permanent residence of the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia, Georgia, entered Ukraine, were granted temporary certificates in accordance with the determined procedure, stayed in Ukraine for at least five years, as well as their adult children who arrived in Ukraine with them before reaching adulthood and applied permits for permanent residence in Ukraine.