This Law shall define legal, organisational, social and economic principles of activity related to transportation of dangerous cargos by rail, sea, river, road and air. The Law defines dangerous cargo as substances, materials, products, waste of industrial and other activities that can cause an explosion, fire, damage to technical means, devices, structures. The legislation on dangerous cargo transportation shall consist of this Law, other laws of Ukraine, international agreements ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. This Law shall apply to the following types of activity: government control and regulation of safety in the field of dangerous cargo Transportation. The main directions of state policy in the field of dangerous cargo transportation shall be the following: compliance with the requirements of environmental, radiation and fire safety, physical protection, protection of human health, labour protection, sanitary and epidemic well-being of the public and traffic safety. The state policy should ensure social protection of employees engaged in the transportation of dangerous cargos. Dangerous cargo carrier shall have the right to: timely receive dangerous cargo along with the relevant documents containing complete information about the cargo; perform a comprehensive inspection of dangerous cargo accepted for transportation and documents for it, provided by law. Carrier shall be obliged to: accept dangerous cargos for transportation, if cargo and its documents meet the established requirements. Government control in the field of dangerous cargo transportation shall be carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Council of Ministers. accept in due time the dangerous cargo which has arrived at its address, and the relevant documents. provide special training, advanced training of persons engaged in the acceptance of dangerous cargos, and their medical examination. undertake the liability insurance in case of negative consequences of dangerous Cargo transportation. reimburse the costs and losses caused as a result of late Acceptance of dangerous Cargos. Ad hoc authorities for dangerous cargo transportation are the central executive authorities in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of transport, according to their respective competence. The powers of the competent authority of Ukraine for dangerous cargo transportation shall include: development and approval of regulatory acts on dangerous cargo Transportation. The competence of the central executive authority in charge of implementing the state policy in the field of transport in relation to dangerous cargo transportation shall include: control for observing the legislation. informing the UN Committee of Experts on Dangerous Cargo Transportation through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the results of dangerous cargo classification. The conditions of dangerous cargo transportation shall be specified by the regulatory acts that regulate the transport activity. If such acts are unavailable, a dangerous cargo shall be allowed for transportation under the conditions established according to the decision of the authorities indicated in Articles 13, 15 and 16 of this Law. The liability of the parties transporting dangerous cargos shall be subject to compulsory insurance. The accident consequences arising during transportation of dangerous cargos shall be eliminated by the central government bodies. Legal entities and individuals shall be liable for violations of the law. International cooperation in the field of dangerous cargo transportation shall be carried out under this Law and international treaties of Ukraine, consent to be bound by the Verkhovna Rada.