This Law shall set out the principles for the legal protection of geographical indications in Ukraine. It regulates relations arising in connection with registration, use and protection thereof. The special aspects of preparation for registration and protection of agricultural  goods, food products, wines, flavoured wine products, alcoholic beverages, as well as control over such geographical indications shall be determined by other laws. National Intellectual Property Office (hereinafter NIPO) means a state organisation that is part of the state system of the legal protection of intellectual property. Name that has become generic means a product name, which, being the name of the geographical place where the product of this type was originally produced and/or processed. Legislation of Ukraine on the legal protection of geographical indications consists of this Law. Powers of the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property, shall include: ensuring statutory regulation, determination of priority areas for the development of the sphere of protection. The functions of NIPO are performed by a legal entity of public law (state organisation), formed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. The powers delegated to NIPo shall include: receipt of applications, their expert appraisal, decision-making on them; state registration of geographical indications. NIPO is chaired by the head, who is appointed and dismissed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. The head of NIPO may not be a person who, in accordance with a court decision, is deprived of the right to bring about activities related to the performance of state functions or hold relevant positions. Head of the Supervisory Board may not be a representative of the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. Powers include the supervision of financial and economic activities NIPO, budget execution, the use of funds generated from the proceeds from the collection of fees for actions related to the protection of intellectualproperty rights. The Supervisory Board operates in accordance with this Law and the regulations on the Supervisory board approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. NIPO shall annually publish on its official website financial statements, as well as audit reports on annual financial statements. The powers of the Appeals Chamber, the requirements for its members, the procedure for consideration of objections against NIPO’s decisions on acquisition of intellectual property rights, and resolution of other issues falling within its competence shall be determined by the Rules of Procedure. The Personnel Review Commission means the body established with the purpose of determining the level of professional training of persons who have shown their intention to engage in the activities of a representative in intellectual property cases. The Appeals Commission shall consist of employees of NIPO, prominent scientists working in the field of intellectual property, and representatives in cases of intellectualproperty (patent attorneys) The powers of the Appeals Commission, its composition, formation procedure, requirements for its members, term of office, as well as rules and procedures of its activities shall be determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy. Foreigners and stateless persons shall have the same rights and obligations as persons of Ukraine. Legal protection shall be provided to a geographical indication if the declared name meets requirements of paragraph 4, Article 1 of this Law. Homonymous geographical indications may be registered if there is a difference during the use between this indication and a previously registered geographical indication. A homonymous indication correctly indicating the geographical place of the product’s manufacture but giving the misleading impression that the product was made in another geographical place shall not be registered. An association of persons who produce goods in the specified geographical location have a right to state registration of a geographical indication. A geographical indication does not provide legal protection to a geographical place in a foreign state if the rights for this indication are not protected in the relevant foreign state. The product for which this indication is declared shall meet the product specification approved by the specially authorised body. An application for registration of a geographical indication can be submitted in paper or electronic form. The application shall relate to one indication of goods origin only. Special requirements to specifications for agricultural products (agricultural goods), food, wines, flavoured wine products, alcoholic beverages may be defined by other laws. The application is drawn up and submitted in accordance with the rules established by the central executive body in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. The documents mentioned in this part may be submitted in a foreign language, and their translation into Ukrainian shall be received by NIPO no later than two months from the date of application. Final results of the expert appraisal of an application which is not considered withdrawn or has not been withdrawn are presented in a substantiated conclusion. On the basis of such a conclusion NIPO shall make a decision on registration of a geographical indication or on denying registration. The applicant has the right to participate, in person or through a representative, in the review of issues arising during examination. Any person may file a reasoned objection with NIPO regarding the non-compliance of the declared geographical indication with the conditions of providing legal protection. A fee is levied for the submission of such objection. Requirements for objections are determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. The application must comply with the conditions for granting legal protection specified in Articles 7 and 8 of this Law. If an application does not comply with requirements of Article 10, the application is considered withdrawn and the applicant is notified thereof. A fee shall be charged for familiarisation with materials of the application. An objection to an application may be granted only if it proves the inconsistency of the declared geographical indication with the conditions for granting legal protection. The results of the objection appraisal are reflected in the conclusion of the expert appraisal of the application. The applicant has the right to withdraw the application at any time before the date of registration of the geographical indication. The right to appeal against a decision of the NIPO to the Appeals Chamber is lost in the event of payment of the state fee for the registration of a geographical indication of the goods origin. A fee is levied for the submission of such objection. If the fee has not been paid within the period indicated in part 1 of this Article, the objection is deemed not filed and a notification is sent to the applicant. An objection against a decision of the NIPO on an application is examined in accordance with the regulation of the Appeals Chamber. The period of consideration of an objection is extended on the initiative of the applicant, but for not more than 2 months if a relevant request is submitted. If the document on payment of the fee for registration of a geographical indication and fee for publication on the registration were not obtained by NIPO within three months after the applicant receives decision approving registration, the application shall be considered withdrawn. If, although the applicant took appropriate measures, the deadline for receipt of a document confirming payment of a. document for registration is missed, the applicant’s rights concerning application. shall be restored, if a relevant request along with additional materials is submitted within six months. Changes may relate to product manufacturing methods, taking into account scientific and technological progress or revision of boundaries of the geographical place mentioned in clause c), part 2, Article 9-1 of this Law. If changes in product specifications require making one or several changes in information in the Register, an application for changes shall be considered under the procedure set out in parts 11, 13–15. An application for the registration of a geographical indication related to a geographical place at the territory of Ukraine in a foreign state can be filed only after its state registration in Ukraine. Information regarding geographical indications protected in Ukraine under international treaties of Ukraine may be entered in the Register. The application shall be considered in the manner determined by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing state policy in the field of intellectual property. The use of a registered geographical indication shall be considered: a) its application to the product or to the label, b) its use in the advertisement and c) records on letterheads, invoices and other documents accompanying the goods. A registered geographical indications shall be protected against the following actions unless otherwise provided for by this Law: any direct or indirect commercial use for a product not covered by the registration.  registered geographical indication is contained in the application for the issuance of a certificate of Ukraine for a trademark. This shall be grounds for refusal to provide legal protection to the trademark (label for goods and services) or grounds for invalidation of the relevant certificate in the manner prescribed by law. The use of an unregistered geographical indication shall be permitted only if the name of the country of origin is clearly and distinctly indicated on the label. The persons entitled to use a registered geographical indication shall be entitled to place a warning marking next to the geographical indication. Specially authorised bodies shall have the right to carry out control over presence of special qualities and other characteristics, the information about which has been entered in the Register, in the goods. The registration of a geographical indication may be invalidated by the court if it is was made in violation of the conditions provided for in Articles 7–9 of this Law. The registration of an indication related to a geographical place in a foreign state is also terminated in connection with the termination of the legal protection of that indication in the state of origin. Revenues received from the payment of state duty for registration of a geographical indication shall be credited to the budgets in the manner prescribed by the Budget Code of Ukraine. Fees provided for by this Law shall be paid to the current accounts of NIPO. Receipts from fees stipulated by this law are used solely for the development and functioning of the state system of legal protection of intellectual property.