This Law regulates the relations between the executive authorities, food market operators, and food consumers. It defines the procedure for ensuring the safety and certain quality indices of food produced, marketed, imported (transferred) into the customs territory of Ukraine and/or exported therefrom. “Clean seawater” means natural, artificial or purified seawater that does not contain any polluting micro-organisms or toxic marine plankton in quantities capable of directly or indirectly affecting the food suitability. “Potable water’ means a foodstuff suitable for human consumption; 15) “clean water” mean clean seawater or fresh water that complies with the safety indices of clean seawaters; 16) ‘hygienic requirements’ mean measures and conditions necessary for the hazard management. “Public catering establishment” means a restaurant, bar, café, canteen, snack bar, pizzeria, delicatessen shop, kiosk, or another establishment regardless of territorial features (location) of economic activities on public catering. “corrective action’ means an action determined and carried out to eliminate causes of detected non-conformity. “Hazard in food” means any chemical, physical, biological factor of a foodstuff or its condition, which may lead to adverse effects on human health. “Unprocessed foodstuff’ means foodstuff that has not undergone any processing, except for splitting into parts, cutting, boning, chopping, breaking, skinning, cleaning and trimming. “circulation” means the sale and/or storage of foodstuffs for the purpose of sale. “packaging unit’ means any packaging, including wrapping, which partially or fully covers the foodstuff for its supply as a separate unit. ‘certain food quality indices’ are indices applied to perform one or more tasks, including informing consumers about the properties of a foodstuff. “Safety parameters’ means parameters, including maximum residue limits, maximum levels, permissible daily exposure, inclusion levels, which are scientifically grounded and approved by a central executive authority. “Primary products” means products of primary production, including products of the soil, of stock farming, of hunting and fishing; 63) “primary production” Means production and cultivation of products, including harvesting, milking, breeding of animals until slaughter. “traceability” means an ability to identify the market operator, time, place, subject and other terms of supply (sale or transfer) “Inclusion level’ means a maximum permissible quantity (content) of a substance or ingredient that may be in or added to a foodstuff. “mobile and/or temporary facilities” mean temporary constructions, mobile vehicles intended for trading. “Stages of food production and circulation” means any stage, including production, storage, transportation, sale, or delivery of food to the final consumer. “technical regulation’ means a regulatory act adopted by a decision of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The term "foodstuff" does not include the following: feed; animals not intended for human consumption alive; plants (prior to harvesting); medicinal products; cosmetics; tobacco and tobacco products; narcotic and psychotropic substances within the meaning of the 1961 UN Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and the 1971 UN Convention on Psychotropic Substances. Legislation on food safety and certain food quality indices must comply with the provisions of this Law. Research (testing) techniques and the procedure for sampling are binding only if it is stipulated by the law. If an international treaty of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine establishes other regulations than those stipulated in this Law, the regulations of the international treaty shall apply. The system of executive authorities in the field of food safety and certain food quality indices shall include the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Other executive authorities and institutions shall not have the right to establish or in any other way exercise regulation and/or state control, including information on foodstuffs unless provided for in this Law. Relevant sanitary measures shall be developed, reviewed, and approved by the central executive authority that forms and ensures the implementation of the state health policy. Sanitary measures should not be more trade-restrictive than required to achieve an adequate level of human health protection, taking into account technical and economic feasibility. A review of proposedsanitary measures and the procedure for obtaining information about them, as well as comments on their application, shall be published. Comments received after the communication and publication of proposed new or amended sanitary measures shall be taken into account on a non-discriminatory basis before adopting such measures. Requirements for certain food quality indices shall not be more trade-restrictive than required to achieve an adequate level of consumer protection, taking into account technical and economic feasibility. The central executive authority that forms and ensures the implementation of the state health policy shall determine the adequate level of human health protection against food-associated risks. Requirements for certain food quality indices shall be applied only to the extent required for consumer protection and taking into account the inadmissibility of unreasonable discrimination between domestic and imported foodstuffs. 1) prevent the state control by the state inspector who, before the beginning of such control, has not presented the duly executed certificate (assignment) for a control measure. 2) require, including from state inspectors, storage and non-disclosure of confidential information, except as provided for by law. 3) appeal against the results of laboratory studies, including reference ones. Market operators shall be responsible for compliance with the legal requirements on food safety and certain food quality indices within the scope of activities they perform. Provisions of this clause do not apply to objects subject to state registration as required by this Law. Market operators shall undertake to ensure compliance with requirements of this Law for food hygiene at all stages of the production and circulation. The market operator that carries out retail trade or distribution of foodstuffs and does not carry out packaging or labelling shall, within the scope of its activities, initiate withdrawal of food stuffs that do not meet the safety parameters. Such market operator shall promote food safety, provide the information required to ensure the traceability ofFoodstuffs, and cooperate with market operators. The requirements of part 1 of this Article shall not apply to market operators performing primary production and related activities. The requirements for the development, implementation and use of permanent procedures based on the HACCP principles shall allow for a simplified approach. This applies to facilities that do not process foodstuffs, namely retail establishments. The possibility to introduce the HACCP principles referred to in part 3 of this Article, not to the full extent. This applies to public catering establishments, except for bakeries, confectioneries. In case of application of visual monitoring procedures, records should be kept only in cases of detected non-compliance with established requirements. Traceability requirements for market operators shall not require them to establish a link (so-called internal traceability) between objects of sanitary measures used in the production and the objects ofsanitary measures obtained as a result of such production. Market operators shall be able to identify other market operators to whom they supply foodstuffs on a “one step forward” principle. When the foodstuffs are not prepackaged, the indication referred to in part 1 of this Article and, where appropriate, the letter ‘L’ shall appear on the packaging or the container. An operational permit shall be obtained by market operators engaged in activities related to the production and/or storage of food of animal origin. The market operator shall apply for obtaining an operational permit specifying the name, identification code according to the Unified State Register of Legal Entities. The inspection of the facility shall be carried out to determine its compliance with the legal requirements. Refusal in the operational permit on the grounds not stipulated by this Law shall be prohibited. The facilities for which the decision to issue the operational permit is taken shall be assigned a registration number. The operational permit shall have an unlimited validity period. The information contained in the permit shall be entered into the register of market operators and facilities. The competent authority shall ensure open and free access to the register by posting it on its website. The Chief State Inspector shall issue a resolution on suspension of the operational permit (detailed at the level of the production line and/or foodstuffs depending on the type of the market operator's activity) The information about it shall be included in the appropriate registry and published by the competent authority on its official website. The competent authority shall carry out state registration of facilities by entering the relevant information into the register free of charge. An individual registration number shall be assigned to facilities in the register. A change in the name of a facility operator due to a change. in the type of joint-stock company or due to the transformation of a. joint- stock company into another economic entity shall not be the ground for the operator to apply to the. competent authority for making changes to the facility register. The decision on state registration of the facility or refusal in such registration shall be made within 10 calendar days after receipt of the relevant application from the market operator. The competent authority shall ensure open and free access to the state register of facilities of market operators by publishing it on its official website. If the inspection finds that the approved export facilities do not meet the declared requirements, the Chief State Inspector shall immediately inform the competent authority thereof. The market operator may appeal against the decision on exclusion of facilities referred to in part 1 of this Article, or a certain type of foodstuffs produced at such facilities, in court. The sale of objects of sanitary measures that are not registered in accordance with the requirements of this Law shall be prohibited. The following shall be subject to state registration: new foodstuffs; food additives; flavourings, except for a separate group of flavourings determined by the central executive authority that forms and ensures implementation of the state health policy. State registers referred to in this Article shall be published on the official website of the central executive authority that forms and ensures the implementation of the state health policy. The State Register of Food Additives shall, in particular, specify their maximum allowable levels in cases where non-determination endangers consumer health. Market operators may submit a request for state registration of a food additive. A food additive applied for the registration and permitted for use by the relevant international organisations shall be subject to express registration. The decision on registration or refusal in registration of the food additive for the production of foodstuffs in Ukraine shall be taken within 120 working days after receipt of the application. State registration may be refused on the following grounds: 1) for processing aids and materials in contact with foodstuffs – if there is evidence of non-compliance of these objects with the legal requirements for their safety. 2) for potable water planned to be categorised as “natural mineral water’ – if evidence of its danger and/or non- compliance with legal requirements. Market operators may apply methodological guidelines for the production of foodstuffs. Enterprises included in the register of exporters shall be forbidden to use raw materials obtained by slaughtering animals at facilities having no operational permit. Methodological guidelines shall be developed by associations of market operators and approved in accordance with the requirements of this Law. It shall be prohibited to slaughter animals without a veterinary document certifying the health of animals. Since 1 January 2025, products obtained from slaughtering in slaughterhouses that have no operational permit may be used exclusively for domestic consumption or for sale to final consumers in agri-industrial markets within 50 kilometres from the place of slaughtering or in the region in which it was carried out. Suitability for human consumption of products of plant origin, as well as raw milk and homemade cheese shall be confirmed by a state inspector. A foodstuff that is unsuitable for human consumption but does not pose an immediate threat (low risk) to human health shall not be allowed for sale and shall be disposed of by the owner. The operation of agri-food markets without accredited laboratories shall be prohibited. The rules of veterinary and sanitary inspection of foodstuffs shall be approved by the central executive authority. Foodstuffs referred to in clauses 2 and 3 of this part shall be subject to withdrawal from circulation and/or recall in accordance with the requirements of this Law. Objects of sanitary measures withdrawn from circulation due to violation of clauses 3 and 4, part 2 of this Article may be returned to circulation subject to labelling corrections. The term “history of safe consumption” shall mean data on the consumption of a foodstuff or ingredient as part of the routine food of the population of a country. Potable water of any origin in any containers shall not belong to the newest foodstuffs. State registration shall be carried out within the period specified in Article 29 of this Law. Non-compliance with the requirements of this law shall be the exclusive ground for refusal in state registration of the newest foods. The provisions of this Article shall not apply to the production and/or circulation of the newest foodstuff containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified organisms, as well as to food additives, flavourings and enzymes. Article 40. General requirements for market operators performing primary production and keeping records on food safety. Market operators engaged in harvesting or production of plant products shall undertake to perform actions referred to in part 2 of this Article. In case of receiving information on non-compliance of facilities with the requirements of the Law detected during the state control, the market operator shall take all necessary measures to eliminate such non- compliance. The provisions of this Article shall not apply to market operators referred to in Articles 40, 43 and 44 of this Law. Article 42. Hygienic requirements for premises where foodstuffs are treated or processed. The design and layout of premises shall ensure the possibility of complying with the appropriate level of food hygiene, including protection against contamination. The provisions of this Article shall not apply to market operators referred to in Articles 43 and 44 of this Law. Mobile and/or temporary facilities (concession stands, kiosks, stalls, mobile vehicles intended for trading) shall comply with the following requirements: 1) be kept clean and in a safe repair; 2) ensure protection from any risk of contamination. Market operators must use equipment and implements in contact with food that meet the following requirements: 1) are clean and, where necessary, disinfected; 2) are made of materials and kept in a safe repair; 3) are placed in a way that allows for cleaning of the equipment and the surrounding area; 4) liquid, granular, powdered foodstuffs are transported in reservoirs and/or containers/tanks. Non-potable water used in fire-fighting systems, for steam production, freezing, and other purposes shall circulate in a separate, clearly identified water line. Water used in the production of foodstuffs (used in the technological process and/or is an ingredient) must meet the requirements for potable water. Ice shall be kept and stored under conditions that protect it from contamination. The temperature regime must be observed to prevent the reproduction of micro-organisms and the formation of toxins. Such regime must not be interrupted. Facilities for the production, treatment, transportation, storage, and wrapping of processed foodstuffs must have appropriate premises for the separate storage of processed and unprocessed foodstuffed. Citizens of Ukraine, foreigners and stateless persons shall be prohibited to import to the territory of Ukraine foodstuffs of animal origin without packaging of the manufacturer for domestic consumption. Market operators shall ensure that the applied heat treatment processes comply with the determined results by means of regular inspections of the established basic parameters. International cooperation of Ukraine in the field of food safety and certain food quality indices shall be carried out by participating in the work of relevant international organisations. The amount of fee for the administrative service and the procedure for its collection shall be determined by law. Market operators shall compensate for damages (losses) in the manner prescribed by the Civil Code of Ukraine.