This Law defines the main legal, economic, and organisational bases of the activities of the public railway system. It regulates its relations with executive authorities, local self-government bodies, other modes of transport, passengers, consignors and consignees of cargo, baggage, freight baggage and post. Railway transport is one of the most important basic sectors of the Ukrainian economy. Operation of the railway transport contributes to the proper functioning of all branches of public production, social and economic development and strengthening of the state's defence capability. Railway transport enterprises must carry passengers and cargo in a timely and high-quality manner. Main-line railroads of public use and placed on them technological structures, transmitting devices that are directly used to ensure the transportation process. JSC Ukrzaliznytsia shall not dispose of, transfer for use, rent, lease, concession, management, pledge, contribute to the authorised capital of business entities. Relations of railway undertakings with local executive authorities and local governments are based on taxation and contractual basis. competence of these bodies includes control over the operation of railway suburban passenger transport and railway stations. JSC Ukrzaliznytsia has the right to make a decision on closing inactive unprofitable railway sections, stations, and railway access roads. Tariffs for the transportation of cargo, passengers, baggage, freight baggage by railway are set on the basis of budget, price and tariff policies. Tariffs for transportation of passengers and baggage in suburban traffic are set by JSC Ukrzaliznytsia. Losses of public railway system caused by its usage are compensated by state or local budgets. Railway revenues for the transportation of goods and passengers in direct traffic are formed with regard to their specific contribution to the transportation process. Payments for these transportations and use of rolling stock are made through a single payment system. Construction and renovation of railway lines, railway stations, pedestrian bridges and tunnels, passenger platforms, and other railway transport facilities related to servicing the population of the region. Rail traffic safety is a set of organisational and technical measures aimed at ensuring trouble-free operation. Locations where railway tracks are crossed by pipelines, communication and power lines and other utilities must be coordinated with the JSC Ukrzaliznytsia. Rolling stock, equipment, and other technical means supplied to the railway transport shall comply with the traffic safety, cargo integrity, labour protection, environmental safety requirements and have the appropriate certification. JSC Ukrzaliznytsia is entitled to impose temporary restrictions on transportation in certain areas in the event of natural disasters, other emergencies. Shelter forests are protected by corporate forest security of shelter forest districts as approved by the JSC. The mobilisation training of public railway system is an important task of enhancing public security and is conducted in peacetime. Employees of the public railway system and their family members (dependants) shall be entitled to free travel by railway. JSC Ukrzaliznytsia has the right to create a non-contributory pension fund using its own resources and pay sectoral pension to railroad employees. JSC Ukrzaliznytsia provides international transportation in direct railway, direct intermodal and indirect international service. Entities engaged in foreign economic activities that export products by transporting their goods using Ukrainian railways may contribute a part of foreign exchange earnings to railways. Relations of railway undertakings with owners of railway tracks, procedure and conditions of operation of these tracks are determined by Railroad Regulations of Ukraine. The rights of railway undertakings (carriers) to cargo accepted for transportation are protected on the same basis as the rights of the cargo owners. Carriers are obliged to ensure: timely and quality transportation of passengers, cargo, baggage, freight baggage, and mail. Damages to the users of the public railway system in case of violation of contractual obligations shall be reimbursed. The carrier's repudiation of the international passenger railway transportation contract who failed to provide the documents specified in Part 2 of this Article, shall not oblige the carrier to reimburse the passenger any associated damage. Carriers are also liable for the storage of cargo, baggage, freight baggage from the time of its acceptance until delivery to the recipient. The procedure and term for drawing up certificates, filing, and consideration of complaints and claims are determined by the Railroad Regulations of Ukraine. Workflow, accounting, reporting, commercial and technical documentation, telegraph communication, legal and scientific and technical information, as well as information and advertising at railway stations, trains and other places of passenger service.