The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, on behalf of the Ukrainian people — citizens of Ukraine of all nationalities, expresses the sovereign will of the people. The territory of Ukraine within its present border shall be indivisible and inviolable. The human being, his or her life and health, honour and dignity, inviolability and security shall be recognised as the highest social value. The state language of Ukraine shall be the Ukrainian language. Local self-government shall be recognised and guaranteed in Ukraine. The land, its subsoil, atmosphere, water and other natural resources within the territory of Ukraine, natural resources of its continental shelf and of the exclusive (maritime) economic zone shall be objects of property rights. The land shall be the main national asset and shall be under the special protection of the State. The State shall guarantee the freedom of political activities not prohibited by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Ensuring environmental safety, maintaining ecological balance in the territory of Ukraine, overcoming the aftermath of the Chornobyl catastrophe – the catastrophe of global scale – and preserving the gene pool of the Ukrainian people. The State symbols of Ukraine shall be the State Flag of Ukraine, the State Emblem of Ukraine and the State Anthem of Ukraine. Human rights and freedoms shall be inalienable and inviolable. Citizens shall be equal before the law. There shall be no privileges or restrictions based on race, skin colour, political, religious, and other beliefs, sex, ethnic and social origin. A citizen of Ukraine shall not be deprived of citizenship and of the right to change citizenship. The duty of the State shall be to protect human life. No one shall be subjected to torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment that violates his/her dignity. Foreigners and stateless persons staying in Ukraine on legal grounds shall enjoy the same rights and freedoms. Every person, arrested or detained, shall be informed without delay of the reasons for his/her arrest or detention. Everyone shall be guaranteed privacy of mail, telephone conversations, telegraph and other correspondence. Intrusion into a person’s dwelling place or other property, inspection or search thereof shall not be permitted except when under a substantiated court decision. Everyone shall be guaranteed the right to freedom of thought and speech and free expression of his/her views and beliefs. The exercise of such rights may be restricted by law in the interests of national security, territorial integrity, or public order. The Church and religious organisations in Ukraine shall be separated from the State. The establishment and activity of political parties and public associations shall be prohibited if their programme goals or actions are aimed at the liquidation of the independence of Ukraine. Citizens shall have the right to take part in trade unions with the purpose of protecting their labour and socio-economical rights and interests. All trade unions shall have equal rights. No one shall be unlawfully deprived of the right of property. The right of private property shall be inviolable. The use of property shall not prejudice the rights, freedoms, and dignity of citizens, the interests of society or aggravate the environmental situation and the natural qualities of land. Everyone shall have the right to proper, safe, and healthy labour conditions and to remuneration no less than the minimum wage determined by law. The use of forced labour shall be prohibited. Citizens shall be guaranteed protection from unlawful dismissal. The right to timely payment for work performed shall be protected. Everyone shall have the right to a standard of living sufficient for themselves and their families including adequate nutrition, clothing, and housing. No one shall be forcibly deprived of housing other than on the basis of the law pursuant to a court decision. Everyone shall be guaranteed free access to information about the environmental situation, the quality of foodstuffs and consumer goods. Citizens shall be guaranteed the freedom of literary, artistic, scientific, and technical creative activities. Citizens shall have the right to obtain free higher education at the state and communal educational establishments on a competitive basis. The State shall promote the development of science and the establishment of scientific relations with the world community. No one shall bear responsibility for acts that, at the time they were committed, were not deemed by law to be an offence. No one may be brought to legal liability of the same type for the same offence twice. A suspect, an accused, or a defendant shall have the right to a defence. The rights and freedoms envisaged in Articles 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, 40, 47, 51, 52, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62 and 63 of this Constitution shall not be restricted. The expression of the will of the people shall be exercised through elections, referendum and other forms of direct democracy. A referendum shall not be permitted with regard to draft laws on taxation, budgetary or amnesty issues. A citizen of Ukraine having attained the age of twenty-one as of the day of elections, having the right to vote, and having resided in the territory of Ukraine for the past five years, may be elected an MP of Ukraine. MPs of Ukraine shall exercise their powers on a permanent basis. MPs of Ukraine shall take the following oath before the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine: “I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself with all my deeds to protect the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, to provide for the good of the Motherland and for the welfare of the Ukrainian people’” The powers of the MP shall be terminated when the relevant court decision comes into force, and in case of the death of an MP of Ukraine – from the date of death confirmed by the certificate of death. The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall be legally constituted provided that at least two-thirds of its constitutional composition has been elected. The term of powers of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine expires while martial law or a state of emergency is in effect. Its powers shall be extended until the day of the first meeting after the cancellation of martial law. The basis for the formation, organisation of operation, and termination of activities of coalition of deputy factions in the Verkhoven Rada shall be established by the Constitution of Ukraine. Voting at the meetings of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall be performed by an MP of Ukraine in person. The Rada shall have the following powers: 1) introducing amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine within the limits and by the procedure envisaged by Section XIII of this Constitution. 14) confirming decisions on granting loans and economic aid by Ukraine to foreign states and international organisations. 15) adopting the Rules of Procedure of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. 17) appointing to office and dismissing from office the Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights. 30) designating regular and special elections to local government. 31) decrees on the introduction of martial law or of a state of emergency in Ukraine. 32) granting consent to the binding character of international treaties of Ukraine. 33) exercising parliamentary control within the limits determined by this Constitution and law. The issue of responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall not be considered by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine more than once during the same regular session. Article 88. The Chairman of the Ver khovna. Rada shall exercise the powers stipulated by this Constitution in the manner. established by the Rules of Procedure of the. Verkhovsky Rada. Article 89. To investigate issues of public interest, the Verkhovna R.ada shall establish interim investigative commissions. The powers of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall be terminated on the day of the opening of the first meeting of a new convocation. The President of Ukraine has the right to an early termination of powers in the following cases: 1) no new Cabinet of Ministers has been formed within sixty days after the resignation of the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine; 3) plenary sessions fail to commence within thirty days of a single regular session. 6) the fundamentals of social protection, the forms and types of pension; the principles of the regulation of labour and employment, marriage, family, the protection of childhood, motherhood, and fatherhood; upbringing, education, culture, and health care. 7) the legal framework for property, the legal principles and guarantees for entrepreneurship; the rules of competition. Amnesty shall be declared by the law of Ukraine. The right of legislative initiative in the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall be vested in the President of Ukraine, the MPs and the Cabinet of Ministers. Draft laws defined as urgent shall be considered out of turn by the Rada. The State shall strive for a balanced budget of Ukraine. Regular reports on revenues and expenditures of the State Budget of Ukraine shall be made public. The Accounting Chamber shall, on behalf of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, exercise control over the revenue. Ensuring the stability of the currency unit shall be the major function of the central bank. The President of Ukraine shall be elected by the citizens of Ukraine for a five-year period on the basis of universal, equal, and direct suffrage by secret ballot. A citizen of Ukraine having attained the age of thirty-five, having the right to vote, residing in Ukraine for the past ten years prior to the day of elections, and having command of the state language may be elected. The same person may not serve as the President of. Ukraine for more than two consecutive terms. The title of the President of Ukraine shall be protected by law and shall be reserved for the President for life unless the President has been removed from the office under the procedure of impeachment. Article 106. The President of Ukraine shall: 1) ensure the independence, national security, and legal succession of the State. 17) be the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine; appoint and dismiss the high command of the armed forces of Ukraine and other military formations; administer the national security and defence of the State. 18) forward the submission to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on the declaration of a state of war. The National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine shall co-ordinate and control the activities of executive authorities in the field of national security and defence. The President of Ukraine may be removed from office by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine under the procedure of impeachment if he/she commits treason or other crime. The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall establish a Special Ad Hoc Commission composed of special prosecutor and special investigators to conduct an investigation. The conclusions and proposals of the Commission shall be considered at the meeting of the Rada. The decision on the removal of the President of Ukraine from office under the procedure of impeachment shall be adopted by at least three-quarters of its constitutional composition. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall be comprised of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the First Vice-Prime Minister, Vice- Prime Ministers and Ministers. The Prime Minister of Ukraine shall manage the work of the Cabinet and direct such work at the implementation of the Programme of Activity. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall abdicate responsibility to the newly elected Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has the power to issue binding directives and resolutions. The executive power in oblasts, raions, and in the Cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol shall be exercised by local state administrations. Acts of the Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine shall be signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Heads of local state administrations shall be responsible to the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. They shall be accountable to, and under the control of, the executive authorities of a higher level. Local state administrations in their respective territory shall ensure: the execution of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, and legality and legal order. Justice in Ukraine shall be administered exclusively by the courts. Delegation of the functions of courts or appropriation of such functions by other bodies or officials shall be prohibited. jurisdiction of the courts shall extend to all legal disputes and all criminal charges. The people shall directly participate in the administration of justice through jurors. The authority of the judge shall be terminated in the following cases: 1) attaining the age of sixty-five; 2) termination of the citizenship of Ukraine or acquisition of foreign citizenship. A judge may not belong to political parties or trade unions, take part in any political activity, hold a representative mandate, hold any other paid offices. Judges shall be appointed on a competitive basis except in cases specified by law. The High Council of Justice shall consist of twenty-one members, including ten members elected by the Congress of Judges of Ukraine from among judges or retired judges. Expenditures for the maintenance of courts shall be allocated separately in the State Budget of Ukraine. The amount of remuneration of judges shall be established by the law on judiciary. The term of office of the elected (appointed) members of the High Council of Justice shall be four years. The President of the Supreme Court shall be an ex officio member of the Council. Members of the high council of justice must belong to the legal profession and meet the criterion of political neutrality. Members may not belong to political parties or trade unions. The law may determine exceptions in relation to the representation in court in labour disputes, disputes on the protection of social rights, on elections and referendums. Ukraine shall be composed of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblasts, raions, cities, districts, settlements and villages. The Cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol shall have special status determined by the laws of Ukraine. The representative body of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea shall be the Verkhovna Rada. The term of office of the Rada, deputies of which are elected in regular elections, shall be five years. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea will be the government of the autonomous  republic. The President of Ukraine may suspend such regulatory acts of the Verkhovna Rada of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea with a simultaneous appeal to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in regard to their constitutionality. The competence of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea shall include: designating elections of deputies, organising and conducting local referendums, managing property and protecting historical monuments. Particular aspects of exercising local self-government in the Cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol shall be determined by special laws of Ukraine. Village, settlement and city councils may permit, upon the initiative of residents, the establishment of house, street, block and other bodies of self-organisation. The material and financial basis for local self-government shall be movable and immovable property, revenues of local budgets, other funds, land, natural resources. Territorial communities of villages, settlements, and cities may combine objects of communal property and budget funds on a contractual basis in order to implement joint projects or jointly finance (maintain) communal enterprises, organisations, or establishments. Expenditures of local government arising from the decisions of government authorities shall be reimbursed by the State. The rights of local self-government shall be protected by judicial procedure. The activity of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine shall be based on the principles of the rule of law, independence, collegiality, transparency, reasonableness, and the binding nature of its decisions and opinions. The independence and immunity of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine shall be guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The State shall ensure funding and appropriate conditions for the operation of the Court. The amount of remuneration of judges shall be determined by the Law on the Constitutional court of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals of the President of the court. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine shall decide on compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine (constitutionality) of laws of Ukraine upon a constitutional complaint. Decisions and opinions of the Constitutional Court shall be binding, final and shall not be subject to appeal. A constitutional complaint may be lodged if all other domestic legal remedies have been exhausted. The issues referred to in clauses 1 and 2, part 1 of this Article shall be considered upon constitutional submissions. By the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, laws and other acts shall be deemed unconstitutional, whether in whole or in part. Pecuniary or non-pecuniary damages inflicted on individuals or legal entities by the acts or actions deemed unconstitutional shall be compensated by the State in the manner established by law. A draft law on introducing amendments to Section I “General Principles”, Section III “Elections. Referendum’, and Section XIII “Introducing Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine” shall be submitted to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine or by at least two-thirds of the constitutional composition of the Rada. An all-Ukrainian referendum designated by the president of Ukraine shall be approved. The Constitution shall not be amended under conditions of martial law. The President of Ukraine shall have the right to issue decrees approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine on economic issues not regulated by laws. Regular elections to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine will be held in March 1998. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine must be formed within three months after its effective date. The prosecutor's office shall, in accordance with the laws in force, continue to perform the function of pre-trial investigation until the bodies to which the relevant functions will be transferred by law begin functioning. Judges of all courts in Ukraine elected or appointed before the effective date of this Constitution shall continue to exercise their powers. The High Council of Justice shall be established by reorganisation of the Supreme Board of Justice. Regular elections of the President of Ukraine after the restoration of the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine shall be held on the last Sunday of March 2015. Judges appointed for a five-year term shall terminate upon the expiry of the term for which they were appointed. The creation, reorganisation and liquidation of courts shall be performed by the President of Ukraine on the basis and in the manner determined by law. If a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has attained the age of sixty-five as of the effective date of the Law of Ukraine “On Introducing Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine (regarding justice)” but no decision on his/her dismissal has been adopted, the powers of such judge shall terminate. The Constitution of Ukraine was adopted at the fifth session of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on 28 June 1996. The representation in courts in proceedings commenced before the effective date of the Law of Ukraine (regarding justice) shall be performed according to the rules that were in force before the law.