This Law determines the legal, economic and organizational principles of activities of pipeline transport. Main pipeline is a technological complex which functions as an integrated system. Industrial pipelines are all other non-main pipelines laid at production facilities, as well as at oil and gas storage facilities. Relations between pipeline transport business entities located in Ukraine and owned by other states are regulated. The purpose of the legislation on pipeline transport is to regulate relations at all stages of development and functioning. The Law is applied to the relations in the field of pipeline transport intended for transportation of hydrocarbons, chemical products, water and other products and substances. Special provisions of implementation of the Law of Ukraine “On Enterprises in Ukraine” with regards to the pipeline transport enterprises are defined by this Law. Main pipeline transport has an important economic and defense significance and is the property of the state of Ukraine. Main pipeline transport infrastructure, built at the cost of municipal enterprises or private business entities, belong to such municipal enterprises. Privatization of state-owned enterprises, subsidiaries of the National Joint-Stock Company “Naftogaz of Ukraine”, as well as enterprises, institutions, organizations established as a result of their reorganization, is prohibited. Disposal of fixed assets that are state owned objects, of shares and of stakes in the statutory capital of state-owned enterprises that carry out activities in transportation and storage in underground gas storage facilities is forbidden. Disposal of shares of the National Joint-Stock Company “Naftogaz of Ukraine” is forbidden, except for the cases when the result of such cases is a transfer of the fixed assets. Part six of this article does not apply to the alienation of fixed assets of state-owned enterprises. State enterprises that carry out activities of transportation by main pipelines and of storage in underground gas storage facilities can not be involved in a bankruptcy procedure. State management of the pipeline transport is executed by central and local bodies of state executive power, representative bodies and local self-government bodies. Pipeline transport lands include land plots on which are built ground surface and above ground pipelines and their structures. Relations between entities that have been assigned to manage pipeline transport facilities, power lines, communications, railways, highways and other communications are carried out on the basis of contracts. Pipeline transport enterprises, institutions and organisations accept, store, transship and transport by pipelines. Protected areas are established along the pipelines. Land within protected areas is not withdrawn from general purpose use, but is used with restrictions (encumbrances) in accordance to the law or contract. Pipeline transport enterprises, institutions and organizations must ensure: supply to customers of hydrocarbons, chemical products, water and other products and substances according to contracts. Adhering to current safety and technical operations norms and rules, to rules of fire safety and environmental protection. diagnostic monitoring of pipeline conditions with functional tools. Pipeline transport enterprises must monitor pipeline supplies of toxic chemical products, liquefied hydrocarbon gases, and wide light hydrocarbon fraction. List of works that are performed during a state of emergency includes recovery from disaster aftermaths (floods, fires, snowstorms, etc.), accidents and catastrophes. The legislation of Ukraine on pipeline transport assumes disciplinary, administrative, civil and criminal liability that is established by the legislation. Persons become liable for violation of the legislation if they are guilty of: intentional damage, destruction and stealing of pipeline transport infrastructure equipment, stealing of products transported by the pipeline transport and also damage to environment. Pipeline transport enterprises, institutions and organisations according to the current legislation of Ukraine must reimburse costs for participation in works on the recovery from disaster aftermaths. Damages incurred to the health and to the property of citizens due to the accidents at mentioned infrastructure facilities, must be fully covered at cost.