All water resources (water objects) on the territory of Ukraine are the national property of the Ukrainian people. Water resources ensure the existence of people, animal and vegetal life and are limited and vulnerable natural objects. There is a need to develop and comply with special rules of water resources use, their rational use and environmentally friendly approach. Waters are all waters (surface, subsoil, sea) that are part of the natural links of the water circulation. Subsoil waters are waters located below the ground level in the earth's formations. Water content is a characteristic of the river flow rate over a certain period of time relative to its long-term average value. Aquifer is a homogeneous layer of rocks where water is constantly present. Hydrographic zoning is the division of Ukraine's territory into hydrographic units to develop and implement river basin management plans. hydraulic structures of seaports (hydraulic structures) are engineering structures (port water, mooring berths, piers, other types of berthing structures, moles, dams, breakwaters, other coastal protection structures)  sanitary protection zone is the territory and water area where a special sanitary and epidemiological regime is introduced to prevent aggravation of water quality. Water monitoring is a system for observing, collecting, processing, storing and analysing information about the state of water bodies, predicting its changes and developing scientifically grounded recommendations for making appropriate decisions. Coastal waters are the waters between the coastline and the line of the territorial sea at a distance of one nautical mile from the starting line. River basin is the main unit of management in the field of water use, protection and reproduction of water resources. Water quality is a characteristic of water composition and properties that determines its suitability for specific purposes. Water relations in Ukraine are regulated by this Сode, the Law of Ukraine “On Environmental Protection” and other legislative acts. The task of water legislation is regulation of legal relations to ensure the preservation, scientifically grounded, rational use of water. All waters (water bodies) on the territory of Ukraine represent its water fund. Waters (water bodies) are the property of the Ukrainian people exclusively and are provided only for use. The Ukrainian people exercise the right to ownership of waters through the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. Some powers with regard to management of waters ( water bodies) may be granted to the relevant executive authorities. Competence of oblast, Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils in the field of water relations regulation. 7) adoption of decisions on the discharge of waste water from reservoirs into water bodies in coordination with the central executive authority. 8) resolution of other issues in theField of Water relations regulation, defined by law. The jurisdiction of raion councils in the field of water relations regulation on their territory includes: 1) work coordination of village, settlement, town councils during the performance of interterritorial water management and water protection actions by them. 2) organisation of work related to the post-accident clean-up and disaster clean up operations. 3) establishment of rules for the general use of water bodies. Citizens have the right to: 1) participate in the consideration of issues related to water, protection and water resources reproduction by local councils and state authorities; 2) execute works on the use and protection of water and reproduction of water resources at their own funds. Article 11. Participation of citizens and their associations, other public formations in the implementation of measures for water use. State, targeted, interstate and regional programmes of water use and protection and reproduction of water resources shall be developed. Development and implementation of these programmes shall be carried out at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine, the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local budgets. The hydrographic unit is the river basin area. 9 river basin areas are established in Ukraine. The boundaries of river basins, sub-basins and water management areas shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of environmental protection. River basin management plans shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine every six years. Basin councils include representatives of central and local executive authorities, local governments, other interested organisations, institutions, enterprises and members of the public. Water management balances are developed to assess the availability and feasibility of using water resources. Competence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the field of management and control over the use and protection of water and reproduction of water resources. The competence includes: implementation of state policy in field of water use, protection and reproduction. Decision on discharges of waste waters from reservoirs into water bodies in case of emergencies. The competence of the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of environmental protection, management and control over the use and protection of water and reproduction of water resources includes: 1) enforcing the formation of state policy. 2) development of state targeted, interstate programmes of water use. 3) development and approval of standards and rules for regulating the use of water. 10) implementation of international cooperation. The central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of environmental protection exercises its powers independently and through its territorial authorities (if formed) The executive authority of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on environmental protection issues has the power to issue permits for work on water fund lands within protection coastlines along the seas, sea bays and firths. The competence of the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of water management development, management and control over the use and protection of water and reproduction of water resources includes: 1) implementation of state policy. 2) development and establishment of operating modes of multi-purpose reservoirs, water management systems and canals, approval of operating rules. 3) meeting the requirements of people and economy sectors in water resources. 12-2) approval of water supply standards. 12-3) monitoring water quality in controllable zones in the areas of main water intakes of complex purpose. 13-14) solving other issues in the field of management and control over water use and protection and reproduction of water resources. The competence of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea includes: ensuring the implementation of state policy in the field of water management, water use and protection and reproduction of water resources. The competence of oblast, Kyiv, Sevastopol city state administrations on environmental protection includes: management and control over water use. The competence of oblast, Kyiv, Sevastopol city state administrations includes: 2) approval of water protection zone projects; 4) solution of other issues in the field of regulation of water relations defined by law. Control over water use and protection and reproduction of water resources involves ensuring compliance with the requirements of water legislation. The chemical state of the surface water mass is determined by certain groups of pollutants and is classified as “good” or “failed to achieve good” based on the environmental standard of water quality. The list of pollutants for determining the chemical status of subsoil waters shall be approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of environmental protection. Environmental impact assessment shall be carried out in the manner prescribed by the law. State water accounting is to establish information on the quantity and quality of waters, as well as data on water use. State accounting of water use is conducted for the purpose of data systematisation on water intake and use, discharge of return water and pollutants. The state water cadastre is compiled in order to systematise the data of state water accounting and determine the available water resources for use. It contains geospatial data, metadata and services, disclosures, other activities with which and access to which is carried out on the Internet. Fees for special water use shall be charged in order to stimulate water rational use and protection and reproduction of water resources. The legislation of Ukraine may establish other standards in the field of use and. protection of water. The standards ensuring safe conditions for water use are established to assess capability for water. use. More stringent standards for environmental safety of water use may be established for the waters of water bodies used for medical, resort, health, recreational and other purposes. Ecological standard for water quality of surface and underground water mass. Sectoral technological standards for the formation of substances discharged into water bodies and the substances supplied to sewage treatment facilities. Technological standards for water use are developed and approved by the relevant central executive authorities. Discharges of substances into water bodies for which there are no standards in the field of water use and protection and reproduction of water resources are prohibited. Water users Enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens of Ukraine, as well as foreigners and stateless persons can be water users. Water users have the right to: 1) carry out general and special water use; 2) use water bodies on a rental basis; 4) demand from the owner of the water body or water supply system to maintain the proper quality of water under the conditions of water use. Infringed rights of water users are subject to renewal in the manner prescribed by law. Water use can be of two types – general and special. The right of general water use may be limited in accordance with the procedure specified in Article 47 of this Code. In the case of low water level, the threat of epidemics and epizootics, as well as in other cases provided by the Law, the rights of water users may belimited. General water use is provided by citizens to meet their needs (swimming, boating, recreational and sport fishing, watering animals, water intake from water bodies without the use of structures or technical devices and from wells) Without attributing water bodies to individual persons and without the issuance of appropriate permits. Limitation of general water use, including limitation of swimming and boating due to the presence of land plots of protection coastlines. Special water use is paid and is carried out based on a special water use permit. Issuance (renewal, issuance of a duplicate, cancellation) of a specialWater use permit is free of charge. To obtain a special Water Use permit, legal entity or individual, individual entrepreneur shall apply to the authorities specified in part two of this article. Issuance or refusal to issue a special water use permit is carried out within 30 calendar days from the date of receiving the application. The exchange of documents between the executive authorities specified in this Article shall be carried out in electronic form in the manner, prescribed by the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy. The reason for renewal of a special water use permit is a change of name or legal entity's location. Renewal is carried out based on the application, which is accompanied by the permit to be renewed. The period for issuing a renewed permit is two working days from the date of receiving the application for its renewal. The reason for the issuance of a duplicate permit is its loss or damage.  reservoirs, ponds, lakes and natural closed reservoirs may be available for use on a lease basis for fishery management needs, culture and health, medical, recreational, sport and tourism purposes. Water bodies are leased for use by authorities that dispose of the land plots under water (water space) under the lease contract agreed with the central executive authority. The use of leased water bodies is carried out in accordance with the requirements of this Code, the Land Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts of Ukraine. If necessary, it may be partially or completely banned by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblast, Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils. Water users who have been issued a special water use permit have the right to discharge return water. The use of water bodies in the exclusion zone and the zone of unconditional (compulsory) resettlement of the territory affected by the Chernobyl disaster is subject to the restrictions established by the Law of Ukraine “On the Legal Regime of the Territory Exposed to Radioactive Contamination”. Water users have the right to request information about the quality of drinking water from the owner of water (water supplier) Non-compliance of quality characteristics of these waters with the established norms of ecological safety of water use and sanitary norms, their use is terminated. The procedure for compensation of such losses to water users shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The use of potable subsoil waters shall be used primarily to meet the needs of drinking and domestic water supply of people, as well as the food industry and livestock farming. Periodic control over the quality of water used for decentralised water supplies shall be carried out by the central executive authority implementing the state policy. The use of water for the needs of agriculture and forestry shall be carried out under the procedure of both general and special water use. Water users are obliged to take measures to prevent flooding, waterlogging, salinisation and pollution of these lands. The limits of drinking water consumption for industrial needs from communal and departmental drinking water supply pipelines shall be set by local councils. Rivers, lakes, reservoirs, canals, other bodies of water, as well as inland sea waters and territorial sea are inland waterways of public use. All vessels and other floating crafts must be equipped with tanks for the scavenging of bilge and other contaminated waters, which must be systematically transferred to special sewage treatment facilities. Water intake for fire-fighting needs is carried out from any water bodies without a special water use permit in the amount necessary to liquidate the fire. It is prohibited to use water from water bodies specially designed forFire-fighting purposes for any other purposes. Discharge of waste water into water bodies is allowed only if the standards of maximum permissible concentrations are complied with. The conditions for discharging these waters into water bodies shall be established by oblast, Kyiv, and Sevastopol city state administrations. The use of technological reservoirs (cooling ponds of thermal and nuclear power plants, fish ponds, settling ponds, etc.) must be carried out in accordance with the norms and rules of operation specified in the technical projects approved in the manner prescribed by law. Landfills for disposal of pollutants, industrial waste and waste water, including mineralised mine and thermal water, formed on the basis of natural waters. Return of produced waters of oil and gas fields to underground water levels is carried out according to technological projects agreed with the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of environmental protection. The classification of rivers of Ukraine defined in this article is not used to determine the surface and subsoil water mass. The large ones are the rivers, located in several geographical areas and having a catchment area of more than 50 thousand square kilometres. The middle ones include rivers with a catchage area of 2 to 50 thousand sq km. The small ones are rivers with catchment areas of up to 2,000sq km. It is prohibited to change the relief of the river basin. The creation of artificial reservoirs and water-supporting structures on rivers and in their basins is allowed only with the permission of local councils. The use of waters exposed to radioactive contamination shall be carried out under the Law of Ukraine “On the Legal Regime of the Territory Exposed to Radioactive Contamination due to the Chornobyl Disaster” Water fund lands are provided for permanent use to military units of the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine. Land plots of protection coastlines, drainage lines and shoreline waterways may be leased to enterprises, institutions, organisations, associations of citizens, religious organisations, citizens of Ukraine, foreigners and stateless persons. The water protection zone is a nature protection territory of regulated economic activity. On the territory of water protection zones, the following is prohibited: 1) use of persistent and potent pesticides; 2) arrangement of cemeteries, cattle burial grounds, landfills, filtration fields; 3) discharge of untreated waste water. Coastal protective belts are established on land plots of all land categories, except for maritime transport lands. If the steepness of the slopes exceeds three degrees, the minimum width of protective belt is doubled. Within the coastal protective belt of the seas and around the sea bays and estuaries, a beach area shall be established. Citizens shall be provided with unimpeded and free access to the coast of the seas, bays, estuaries and islands in inland waters within the beach area. The islands have a regime of limited economic activity provided for coastal protective belts. In protective belts along rivers, around water bodies and on islands the following is prohibited: ploughing lands (except for soil preparation for planting and afforestation), gardening and horticulture. Economic activities in coastal protective belts along seas, bays and estuaries as well as on islands in inland waters are restricted. The construction of any structures within the beach zone of protective belts, except for hydraulic, hydrometric and linear, is prohibited. Facilities located in the coastal protective belt may be operated, provided that its regime is not violated. Drainage diversion lanes with a special mode of use are installed for the needs of operation and protection against pollution, damage and destruction of main, inter-farm and other canals on irrigation and drainage systems. The size of coastal waterways and economic activities there are determined by Article 91 of this Code. Water bodies, allocated in the manner prescribed by law to the territories and objects of the nature reserve fund, are protected and used in accordance with the requirements established by the Law of Ukraine “On the Nature Reserve Fund of Ukraine” It is prohibited to carry out any activity on water bodies classified as nature reserves, contradicting their intended purpose. The main measures to ensure the protection and reproduction of fish stocks, aquatic animals and plants include equipment with fish protection devices. Construction of fish farms, artificial spawning grounds, fish culverts, preparation of reservoir beds, etc. Filling the reservoir before the implementation of the measures provided by the projects for the preparation of its bed is prohibited. The protection of inland sea waters and territorial sea from pollution and clogging shall be carried out in accordance with the rules, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Chemical, radioactive and other harmful substances, as well as radioactive or other wastes, materials, objects and debris that may cause marine pollution shall not be discharged into inland waters. The organisations engaged in exploration works shall carry out the liquidation of exploratory workings. Unsuitable, abandoned production and observation wells shall be liquidated by organisations on whose balance they are listed. If it is impossible to identify the owner of abandoned wells and workings, their liquidation shall be carried out by the central executive authority. Ukrainian legislation provides for the development of flood risk management plans. Plans are developed and implemented to reduce the potential negative impact of floods on human life, the environment, cultural heritage and economic activities. The procedure for developing a flood riskmanagement plan shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In emergency situations on water bodies related to their pollution, the enterprise, institution or organisation that have caused the accident or that detected it must immediately start liquidating its consequences. The central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of water management development must ensure the smooth operation of water bodies during floods and freshets. Disputes over the use and protection of water and reproduction of water resources shall be considered by the central executive authority. Disputes with other states, as well as between foreigners, stateless persons, foreign legal entities and the owner of water will be considered. Responsibility for the water law violation entails disciplinary, administrative, civil or criminal liability. The legislation of Ukraine may establish liability for other offenses related to the use and protection of water and reproduction of water resources. Enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens of Ukraine, as well as foreigners and stateless persons, foreign legal entities are obliged to compensate for damages caused by them as a result of violations of water legislation.