This Law regulates legal relations in connection with state registration, production, purchase, transportation, storage, trade, human health and environmentally friendly use of pesticides and agrochemicals. It defines rights and obligations of enterprises, institutions, organisations and citizens, as well as powers of executive authorities and officials in this field. “counterfeit pesticides and agrochemicals” mean products that do not meet the established requirements for pesticides and Agrochemicals. “Counterfeit’ means products a registered trademark on the packaging of which was used in violation of the owner’s rights. It shall be prohibited to import into the customs territory of Ukraine, produce, sell, apply and advertise pesticides and agrochemicals before their state registration. Requirements for state registration of pesticides and Agrochemical shall not apply to pilot batches used for state testing and scientific research. State testing of pesticides and agrochemicals shall be conducted in two stages: field and production testing. The purpose of field testing shall be to establish or confirm the biological efficiency of new pesticides and AgroChemicals compared to those applied. Agricultural products resulting from field testing with new active substance shall be subject to destruction in compliance with sanitary regulations on safety for human health. Pesticides and agrochemicals shall be registered for up to ten years. The central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of environmental protection may establish an absolute or temporary ban on the application of pesticides. In certain cases, due to sanitary and epidemic and environmental situation in the country, restrictions may be imposed. After termination of registration of pesticides, their re-registration shall be carried out on a fee basis. Pesticide and agrochemical application equipment subject to the requirements and procedures of technical regulations on machine safety shall not be subject to state testing, state registration and re-registration. Citizens shall import registered pesticides and Agrochemicals into the customs territory of Ukraine in the amount necessary for domestic use. Environmental risk of activities related to import to the territory of. Ukraine of pesticides and agochemicals, their transportation and use shall be. subject to compulsory insurance. The sale of pesticides and agrochemicals to the public shall be carried out in small packs with mandatory instructions on their safe application. The application of pesticides in radioactively contaminated areas and environmental disaster areas shall be restricted in the manner established by the central executive authority shaping the state agrarian policy. Enterprises, institutions and organisations shall keep records of availability and use and submit such information to bodies responsible for state accounting. Unsuitable or prohibited pesticides and agrochemicals, their packages shall be subject to withdrawal, disposal, destruction and detoxification in the manner established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Officials shall be liable for disclosure of information that they have known in the course of their official duties. State oversight over the content of residues of pesticides, agrochemicals and heavy metals in surface waters intended for agricultural use, the soil of agricultural lands, feed, as well as agricultural products and raw materials. State supervision over the compliance by enterprises, institutions, organisations of all forms of ownership and by citizens with state sanitary standards and rules. The competence of the central executive authority implementing the state policy in the field of environmental protection in respect of activities related to pesticides and agrochemicals shall include: organisation of state testing of pesticides of domestic and foreign production, formation and approval of the plan for its performance. Article 16-5. Competence of thecentral executive authority shaping the state health policy. The competence of the central executive authority implementing the state policy on state supervision (oversight) in the field of environmental protection, rational use, reproduction and protection of natural resources may include other activities related to pesticides and agrochemicals as defined by the laws of Ukraine and assigned by the President of Ukraine. Officials of executive authorities exercising state supervision and state oversight have the right to require enterprises, institutions, organisations irrespective of their form of ownership to comply with legislation. The legal requirements of officials exercising state supervision and state oversight shall be binding. In case of contamination of foodstuffs with residues of pesticides and agrochemicals in amounts exceeding the established requirements, the right to prohibit their processing and sale shall be granted. The decision on the procedure for using agricultural raw materials that do not comply with these requirements shall be adopted. Workers directly engaged in activities related to pesticides and hazardous agrochemicals shall be entitled to a preferential pension, additional leave and shorter working hours. The list of categories of workers entitled to benefits shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Financing and material support of state authorities exercising state supervision and state oversight over compliance with the legislation on pesticides and agro Chemicals. The legislation of Ukraine may also establish liability for other types of violations of the legislation. Ukraine shall participate in international cooperation in the field of registration, production, transportation, sale, storage, application, withdrawal, disposal, destruction and detoxification. If international treaties ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine establish other rules than those provided for by the legislation of Ukraine on pesticides and agrochemicals, the rules of the international treaty shall apply. Annex to the Law of Ukraine “On Pesticides and Agrochemical” No. 86/95-VR of 2 March 1995.