This Law defines the legal, economic, organisational and social basis of the transport operation. It is intended to meet the needs of the population and public production in transportation. The development and improvement of transport is carried out in accordance with state target programmes, taking into account its priority. Public administration in the field of transport shall be carried out by the central executive authority. The language of transport services in Ukraine shall be the state language. Relations of public use transport companies with central and local executive authorities and local governments are built on the basis of taxes, tax benefits, established standards and other economic means. Construction of railway stations, stations, ports, quays, airports, pedestrian bridges, tunnels, passenger platforms, subways, purchase of passenger rolling stock, maintenance and ordering of communication routes and other facilities related to passenger service and cargo transportation. Transport companies carry out transportation and provision of services on the basis of state contracts, state orders and contracts. Vehicles must meet the safety, labour protection and ecology requirements, and have an appropriate certificate. Transport lands are recognised as land provided for use by transport companies and organisations in accordance with the Land Code of Ukraine. Transport companies are obligated to: meet the transportation needs of citizens and organisations; deliver passenger service during long haul transportation. Transport companies have the right to: determine the term and schedule of transportation; assign regular and additional runs and routes of transportation. provide high-quality and timely transportation of passengers, cargo, baggage, mail; execute state tasks (contracts) to meet the needs of defence and security of Ukraine; ensure transportation safety. The list of military cargo, the procedure for protecting and escorting them by guards are established by the Ministry of defence of Ukraine. The list of goods that must be accompanied by the personnel of the departmental paramilitary guard on railway transport is approved by the central executive authority in charge of shaping and implementing the state policy in the field of transport. Pasts of enterprises, railway stations, stations, ports, quays, airfields and communication lines are areas of increased danger. Presence of citizens in such areas is prohibited. Enterprises, institutions and organisations – shippers, carriers and recipients of dangerous goods must comply with the legislation requirements to ensure the safety of their transportation. State supervision (monitoring) over the activities of business entities engaged in the transportation of passengers and cargo (including dangerous), legal entities and individuals shall be carried out by means of scheduled, unscheduled, raid inspections (roadside inspection) To carry out a measure of state supervision, a certificate (referral) is issued. Central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy on land transport safety. Keeps records and carries out analysis of causes of catastrophes, accidents, traffic incidents in automobile, urban electric, rail transport. Carries out state supervision (monitoring) of compliance with legislation requirements in maritime and river transport. Ukrainian Maritime Administration is responsible for maritime and river transport in the country. The agency monitors and supervises compliance with the legislation on vessel navigation on, in sea and river ports, territorial and internal waters, on inland waterways of Ukraine. It also performs Port State Control over the compliance of vessels calling at the ports of Ukraine with maritime safety standards.  issues Navigator licence of a small-sized (small) vessel, a merchant vessel, which is allowed to sail on navigable inland waterways of Ukraine. Organises training and testing of knowledge of officials whose functional responsibilities include the organisation of work to ensure the safety of navigation on maritime and river transport and state supervision. Termination of work (strike) at transport companies may occur in case of non-compliance by the administration of the enterprise with the terms of tariff agreements. Insurance of vehicle operating personnel as well as passengers, baggage and cargo in transport is determined by the legislation of Ukraine in force.  Maritime transport comprises maritime transport companies that carry out the transportation of passengers, cargo, mail, vessels, vessel repair plants and maritime communication lines. River transport comprises river transport companies, that carry. out the traffic of cargo, baggage, mail and ports and quays. Technical supervision of vessels and their classification. shall be carried out by a classification society, chosen by the proposal of the shipowner. For river navigation-related operations and float on internal waterways outside of human settlements, a coastal strip is provided in due course. Coastal strip lands are not seized from land users and used in accordance with the legislation of Ukraine in force. Technical, classification and navigation supervision on river vessels shall be carried out by a Classification Society. Lands that are located under general use roads and their structures, are provided to road organisations for use in accordance with the legislation in force. Aviation transport comprises of air transport companies that carry out transportation passengers, cargo, baggage, mail, aerial photography, agricultural work, as well as airports, airfields, air clubs, vehicles. Relations in the field of pipeline transport are regulated by the Law of Ukraine "On pipeline transport" and other legislative acts of Ukraine. Chief executives of transport companies shall bear the responsibility for weed contamination of land adjacent to highways. Intermodal coordination between enterprises of different transport type during transportation of passengers, cargo, baggage, mail, are determined by codes. Central executive authorities in charge of implementing the state policy in the relevant areas of transport and infrastructure, within the limits set by the central executive authority. participate in the implementation of state policy. in international cooperation in the field of security in the road, urban electric, rail, maritime and river transport. provide the fulfilment of obligations arising from membership in international organisations.