This Law is based on the recognition of the value of arbitration (arbitration tribunal) as a widely used method of settling disputes arising in international trade. It takes into account the provisions on such arbitration contained in the international treaties of Ukraine as well as in the model law adopted in 1985 by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law. The term “commercial” shall be interpreted broadly and encompass matters arising from any commercial relations, both contractual and non-contractual. Relationships of commercial nature include, but are not limited to, any trade agreements on the delivery of goods or output of services, or the exchange of goods and services. Arbitration agreement is an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of any defined legal relationships. An arbitration agreement may be concluded in the form of an arbitration clause in a contract. No court shall intervene except where so provided in this Law. No person shall be precluded by reason of his or her nationality from acting as an arbitrator unless otherwise agreed by the parties. If the parties have not determined such a number, the number of arbitrators shall be three. It is not incompatible with an arbitration agreement for a party to request an interim measure of protection and for a court to rule on granting such measure. An arbitrator may be challenged only if circumstances exist that give rise to reasonable doubts as to his or her impartiality or independence. A party may challenge an arbitrator appointed by it or whose appointment it has participated in, only for reasons that has become known to it after the appointment. Unless the challenged arbitrator withdraws from his office or the other party agrees to the challenge, the arbitration tribunal shall decide. If a challenge under any procedure agreed upon by the parties or under the procedure of clause 2 of this Article is not successful, the challenging party may request the authority specified in Article 6 to decide on the challenge. While such a request is pending, the arbitration tribunal, including the challenged arbitrator, may continue the arbitration proceedings and make an arbitration award. A plea that the arbitration tribunal does not have jurisdiction shall be raised not later than the submission of the statement of defence. A party is not precluded from raising such a plea by the fact that it has appointed, or participated in the appointment of, an arbitrator. The arbitration tribunal may, in either case, admit a later plea if it considers the delay justified. The parties are free to agree on the seat of arbitration. In the absence of such an agreement, the arbitration tribunal shall determine the language to be used in the proceedings. The arbitration tribunal may order that any documentary evidence shall be accompanied by a translation into the language or languages agreed upon by the parties. The parties shall be given sufficient advance notice of any hearing and any meeting of the arbitration tribunal for the purposes of inspection of goods, other property or documents. Failure to submit documents or appear at a hearing may continue the proceedings and make the award on the basis of evidence in the case. The arbitration tribunal may appoint one or more experts to report to it. The arbitration tribunal or a party with the consent of the arbitration tribunal may request from a general court of appeal at the location of evidence (place of witness' residence) assistance in examining the witness, taking evidence or its inspection at its location. The court may execute this request within its competence and according to its rules on taking evidence. The arbitration tribunal shall decide on the dispute under such rules of law as are chosen by the parties as applicable to the merits of the dispute.  arbitration award has the same status and effect as any other arbitration award on the merits of the case. The arbitration award shall be made in writing and shall be signed by the sole arbitrator or arbitrators. The award shall state the reasons upon which it is based, a resolution regarding satisfaction or rejection of the claim, the amount of the arbitration fee and costs, and their distribution. The arbitration tribunal may correct any errors referred to in paragraph 2 of clause 1 of this Article on its own initiative. If the arbitration tribunal considers the request to be justified, it shall make the correction or give the interpretation within 30 days of receipt of the request. Such interpretation shall form part of the arbitration award. Recourse to a court against an arbitration award may be made only through the set-aside motion. An arbitration award, irrespective of the country where it was made, shall be recognised as binding and shall be enforced subject to provisions of this Article and Article 36. If the arbitration award or agreement are made in a foreign language, the party shall supply a duly certified translation thereof into the Ukrainian language. The International Commercial Arbitration Court is an independent, permanently functioning arbitration institution (arbitration tribunal) that carries out its activities in conformity with the Law of Ukraine “On International Commercial arbitration”. Section IX TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS apply to the procedure for resolving disputes in arbitration provided for by the Law. Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce and Industry approves the Rules of the International Commercial Arbitration Court. Disputes resulting from contractual and other civil law relationships arising in the course of foreign trade and other forms of international economic relations may be referred to the Court. The Court shall also hear disputes subject to its jurisdiction under international treaties of Ukraine. Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce and Industry approves the Rules of the Maritime Arbitration Commission. Rules set out procedure for calculating arbitration fees, rates of the arbitrators’ fees and other expenses of the Commission, and promotes its activities. Commission shall settle disputes arising from contractual and other civil law relationships in the area of merchant shipping. The Maritime Arbitration Commission at the Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has its own seal reproducing its name in the Ukrainian and English languages. The Chairman of the Commission may determine the amount and form of the security for a claim and, in particular, may make a ruling to lay an embargo on the other party's vessel or cargo in a Ukrainian port.