This Law defines legal and social foundations of road traffic to protect the life and health of citizens, create safe and comfortable conditions for participants in road traffic and protect the environment. The tasks of the Law of Ukraine on road traffic include public relations and public administration. The competence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the field of road Traffic includes preparing draft laws and regulations.  setting uniform requirements for the design and technical condition of vehicles operated in Ukraine. determining the procedure for issuing certificates for activities related to the manufacture, repair and operation of vehicles. determining procedure for the functioning of the system for automatic recording offences in the field of road safety. approving the methodology for determining economic losses in connection with the death or injury of people as a result of road accidents. The competence of city councils and their executive authorities, raion councils and raion state administrations in the field of road traffic include: compliance with the requirements of legislation and decisions of executive authorities on road traffic and its safety. The competence of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; approving regional road traffic development and safety programmes. The competence of village, township councils, their executive authorities in the field of road traffic includes: ensuring compliance with requirements of the legislation and decisions of central executive authorities on road traffic and its safety. The bodies determined in the first part of this Article shall be entitled to consider and resolve other issues that are within their competence in accordance with the current legislation. The competence of the owners of motor roads, streets and railway crossings or their authorised bodies in the field of road traffic includes: developing programmes and implementing measures for the development, improvement, repair and maintenance of roads. Article 9. creating off-budget funds for additional funding of road Traffic safety measures. The competence of vehicle owners includes: implementing measures for the development, operation and maintenance of vehicles in good technical condition. The right to build municipal and other structures, laying communications, the right to protective works and structures, service structures and equipment in accordance with the applicable legislation. arranging places for vehicle stops, parking and resting sites. Ministries, other central executive authorities and associations, within their competence, shall ensure road safety. The position of a road safety specialist shall be introduced. The Regulation on this service shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Officials responsible for the operation and technical condition of vehicles are obliged to: ensure recruitment, advanced training and raising the professional level of drivers. Citizen associations and citizens should assist government authorities in the implementation of road safety measures. Persons responsible for the operation of access and dirt roads, as well as vehicle owners, are obliged to eliminate the possibility of removing the earth, stones or other materials by vehicles onto motor roads, streets, railway crossings. Participants in road traffic are obliged to: know and strictly comply with the requirements of this Law, traffic rules and other regulatory acts on road safety issues. Police officers, employees of the military inspectorate of road safety of the Military Law Enforcement Service within the Armed Forces of Ukraine, road services and emergency (ambulance) care teams in the line of duty may deviate from certain requirements of traffic rules. The list of medical contraindications (diseases and defects), in the presence of which a person cannot be allowed to drive the corresponding vehicles, is determined by the designated central executive authority for health care. A person who wants to acquire the right to drive vehicles of the corresponding category or type is obliged to undergo a medical examination, training or retraining in accordance with the standard training programme. Theoretical and practical examinations for acquiring the right to drive vehicles of the corresponding category shall be taken in the territorial bodies of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. The central executive authority implementing the state policy in the area of supervision (oversight) in the agro-industrial complex, shall create and maintain a register of institutions that carry out training. Drivers of land-based vehicles (“Green card” insurance certificate) are obliged to have on hand a driver's licence, a registration document for a vehicle. Drivers of military vehicles – police officers or officials of the military inspectorate of road safety of the Military Law Enforcement Service within the Armed Forces of Ukraine – present in a way that allows the police officer to read and record the data contained in the driver’s licence. Not to allow cases when the vehicle is driven in a state of alcohol, drug or other intoxication or under the influence of medications that reduce attention and reaction speed. Check the technical condition of the vehicle before driving and monitor it on the road. When driving a car equipped with seat belts, be fastened, and on a motorcycle – in a buttoned motorcycle helmet. A pedestrian is obliged to: move along sidewalks, pedestrian or bicycle paths, roadsides, and in case of their absence – along the edge of the roadway of a road or street. Demand from the government and local authorities, owners of motor roads, streets and railway crossings to create conditions for ensuring traffic safety. People in wheelchairs have the right to: move along sidewalks, pedestrian or bicycle paths at the speed of a pedestrian; move along the edge of the roadway, street or roadside. They are obliged to: use technically sound and properly equipped bicycles; refrain from carrying loads that interfere with bicycle control. Trolleys (sledges) should be equipped with reflective devices and in the dark – with lanterns. Road safety skills in children begins in preschool educational institutions from the age of three. In secondary, vocational and technical educational institutions, the training of students in traffic rules may be carried out based on driver training programmes for categories A1, A, B1, B. The procedure for using motor roads is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Owners of roads, streets and railway crossings are responsible for creating safe traffic conditions. Acceptance of completed construction, reconstruction and repair works is carried out with the participation of state authorities. Uniform rules for the repair and maintenance of motor roads are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Kyiv, Sevastopol and Simferopol city councils, city councils of cities which are administrative centres of oblasts, shall ensure the setup, equipment and operation of parking areas. It is allowed to temporarily restrict or prohibit the movement of vehicles, pedestrians on certain sections of streets and motor roads during the passage of the President of Ukraine. The safe and unhindered passage of vehicles with persons specified in part one of this Article is ensured by relevant units of the National Police, the Administration of State Guard of Ukraine. Road traffic is organised by specialised services, which are created by relevant authorities. It is prohibited to temporarily restrict or prohibit movement of vehicles, pedestrians on certain sections of streets, motor roads while persons are passing by road transport. Changes in the organisation of road traffic to increase the traffic intensity of vehicles by reducing the level of road safety are not allowed. The movement of cyclists, persons moving in wheelchairs, horse-drawn vehicles and the droving of animals by drovers shall be organised using duplicate paths, roadsides. Caterpillar-tracked vehicles are only allowed on secondary roads without a hard surface at sub-zero temperatures. The procedure for wholesale and retail trade in vehicles and their component parts with identification numbers is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Records of enterprises, institutions, organisations and other business entities, regardless of their form of ownership, are kept by territorial bodies of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Vehicles registered by relevant authorities of foreign states, which are imported into the territory of Ukraine and are under customs control, shall be subject to export. Re-equipment of vehicles, that is, changing the type or brand (model), purpose or construction parameters of vehicles that are in operation, must comply with established rules and standards. Re-Equipment which leads to changes in the total mass and its distribution along the axes, location of the centre of gravity, type of engine, its weight and power. All types of vehicles intended for operation on the public street and road network are subject to state registration and record. The Unified State Register of Vehicles is maintained by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. If a person who is entered in the Unified Register of Debtors applies for re-registration, de-reg registration of a vehicle for the purpose of its alienation, territorial bodies are obliged to refuse to perform such registration. The procedure for exercising departmental registration and keeping records of vehicles is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Vehicles for personal use temporarily imported to the customs territory of Ukraine by citizens for more than 30 days are subject to state registration. Owners of vehicles and persons using them legally are obliged to register (re-register) their vehicles within ten days. Information on registered vehicles and their owners, proper users is open and publicly available. Information from the Unified State Register of Vehicles is provided in the manner and the form established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The only samples of state licence plates and requirements for them, including those manufactured based on an individual order, are established. Owners of vehicles registered by territorial bodies of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine may order one additional set of number plates. Vehicles that participate in road traffic and are registered by territorial bodies of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine are subject to mandatory technical control. Mandatory technical control of a vehicle provides for checking the technical condition of the vehicle, namely: brake and steering systems, external lighting devices, pneumatic tires and wheels. For each vehicle that has passed the mandatory technical control and is recognised as technically sound, the subject of technical control shall draft a protocol on its technical condition inspection. The protocol shall indicate the period of the next mandatorytechnical control of the vehicle based on the frequency of such control. for buses and specialised vehicles that transport dangerous cargoes, regardless of their service life – twice a year. It is prohibited to operate unregistered vehicles where identification numbers on component parts do not correspond to the records in registration documents, are destroyed or forged. Operation of vehicles is also prohibited in the case of: violation of the requirements for their re-equipment. Road traffic rationing is carried out to establish mandatory norms, rules, requirements regarding the organisation and safety of road traffic. Traffic rules approved by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Planning measures to ensure road safety. Medical examination and re-examination of candidates for drivers and drivers of vehicles. A road safety programme must include: analysis of the state of road traffic safety and forecast for a certain period; specific reasonable goals. Medical examination is carried out to determine the ability of candidate drivers and drivers to drive vehicles safely. The frequency of examinations, the procedure for their conduct and driver referral to extraordinary examinations is determined by a joint act of the central executive authority in charge of shaping the state policy in the field of health care, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Victims of traffic accidents and other participants in road traffic shall be provided with emergency medical care. Health care facilities that are assigned to specific sections of motor roads, streets, railway crossings in accordance with approved plans. Road signs shall be installed with information on the nearest health care institution which can provide emergency care. The manufacture and operation of vehicles with emissions that contain pollutants exceeding the established standards is not allowed. Enterprises that produce fuel should comply with mandatory requirements for fuel and lubricants. The enterprise is liable in the form of a fine in case of the manufacture of low-quality fuel. To prevent soil contamination with waste oil products, automobile enterprises should be provided with special containers. Article 52-2. ensuring the organisation and exercise of control over training, retraining and advanced training of vehicle drivers. keeping records of trade organisations, manufacturing enterprises and business entities of all forms of ownership which sell vehicles or numbered components. keeping a register of subjects of mandatory technical control and state control over compliance by such subjects with requirements of the legislation. City, township, village councils may decide to introduce within the territory of settlement an automated system for monitoring the payment of the cost of parking services. The payment for the use of paid parking lots is made by transferring funds through bank institutions, payment devices (ATMs, payment terminals), parking machines, mobile communication means. The National Police shall also control the legality of the operation of vehicles on the public street and road network. Liability for offences in the field of road safety recorded automatically, or violation of the rules for stopping, parking vehicles, recorded by photographing (videorecording) is borne by an individual or head of the legal entity for which the vehicle is registered. If an international treaty of Ukraine establishes rules other than those contained in the legislation of Ukraine on traffic, the rules of the international treaty shall apply. President of Ukraine L. KRAVCHUK City of Kyiv 30 June 1993 No. 3353-XII.