Law of Ukraine No. 1629-IV of 18 March 2004 No. 1629-IV of 18 March 2004 .<n>Law of Ukraine No. 1629-IV of 18 March 2004 No. 1629-IV of 18 March 2004 .<n>Law of Ukraine No. 1629-IV of 18 March 2004 No. 1629-IV of 18 March 2004 .<n>Law of Ukraine No. 1629-IV of 18 March 2004 No. 1629-IV of 18 March 2004 . adaptation of legislation shall mean the process of bringing the laws of Ukraine in line with acquis communautaire .<n>The state policy of Ukraine on the adaptation of legislation shall aim at ensuring the unified approaches to legislative drafting .<n>The main political and legal and organizational principles of adaptation of legislation have been created in Ukraine . The Partnership and Co-operation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities and their Member States of 14 June 1994 determines the priority fields of adaptation of legislation.<n>The Strategy of Ukraine’s Integration into the European Union defines the main provisions of the foreign policy strategy for Ukraine’s integration into the European legal space, goal and levels of the adaptation of legislation.<n>The Programme of Ukraine’s Integration into the European Union defines the ways and rates of implementation of certain priorities determined by the progress of economic reforms. State Council for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine was established by the Decree of the President of Ukraine No. 791 of 30 August 2002 .<n>At the Yalta Summit Ukraine—European Union on 7 October 2003, common understanding was achieved that one of the most efficient ways to use the opportunities of the current EU enlargement for Ukraine was to intensify its work on the adaptation of the national legislation, provisions and standards to the relevant EU provisions . To conduct the comparative legal research of the compliance of Ukrainian legislation with the European Union acquis .<n>To translate the acquis communautaire acts in these areas into Ukrainian .<n>To create a nation-wide information network for the European law . Specific measures on the adaptation of legislation, forecast deadlines for taking them, the scope of expenditures .<n>The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine shall: ensure implementation of the Programme in terms of issues falling under the competence of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine .<n>An authority coordinating the work on Programme implementation shall be the competent central executive authority in the field of adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to the legislation of the European Union . Regulation on the Coordination Council and its composition shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine .<n>The Coordination Council shall annually draw up a report on the progress of Programme implementation to be published at the plenary session of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine . Expert examination of the draft laws of Ukraine and other draft regulatory acts shall be conducted by a competent central executive authority .<n>Measures aiming at the implementation of the Programme shall be financed at each stage at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine .<n>The specific scope of expenditures for taking the measures on Programme implementation shall be determined in the law on the State Budget of Ukraine .