Everyone has the right to higher education. Citizens of Ukraine have the right to receive higher education free of charge in state and municipal owned higher educational institutions on a competitive basis, according to the higher education standards, if this is the first time the citizen is pursuing that higher education level at the expense of the state or local budget. Citizens of Ukraine are free to choose the higher educational institution, the form for pursuing higher educational institution, and their specialty. The right to higher education is granted regardless of age, citizenship, place of residence, sex, skin color, social and financial standing, nationality, language, ancestry, state of health, attitude to religion, past convictions, or other circumstances. No one can be restricted in their right to higher education, except in cases established by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Restrictions and preferences determined by specific conditions for pursuing higher education and determined by the specifics of acquiring a qualification do not constitute discrimination of the right to higher education. To ensure that persons with special educational needs exercise their right to higher education, higher educational institutions create the conditions necessary for such people to pursue quality higher education. To ensure that persons who require social support according to the legislation exercise their right to higher education, their sustenance is financially provided for while they are pursuing higher education at each educational level. Citizens of Ukraine have the right to pursue higher education in a second specialty free of charge in state and municipal owned higher educational institutions, if they are no longer able to perform service or official duties in their previous qualification for health reasons, as confirmed by opinion of the medical and social expert commission, and in other cases provided for by law. Foreigners and stateless persons permanently residing in Ukraine, persons who received refugee status in Ukraine, persons requiring subsidiary protection or asylum, and persons who received a foreign Ukrainian status and are legally temporarily residing in Ukraine, have the right to pursue higher education, equal to citizens of Ukraine. Higher education is provided to the above categories of people at the expense of the state budget within the quotas determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Other foreigners and stateless persons can pursue higher education at the expense of natural persons (legal entities), unless otherwise provided for by international agreements of Ukraine ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, the legislation, or international academic mobility agreements between higher educational institutions. All persons pursuing higher education in higher educational institutions have equal rights and obligations (Article 4 of the Law).