The Family Code of Ukraine defines the principles of marriage, personal non-property and property rights and responsibilities of spouses, grounds and scope of personal proprietary and non-proprietary rights and responsibilities of parents and children, adoptive parents and children, and other family members and relatives. This Code regulates family relations with the purpose of: strengthening family as a social institute and as a union of specific persons; promoting being committed to parents, children and other family members; building a family on parity grounds and on the basis of mutual love, respect, aid and support; making sure that every child is provided with family care and opportunities for physical and mental development. The Family Code of Ukraine governs personal proprietary and non-proprietary relations between spouses, parents and children, adoptive parents and children, and a child's mother and father to an extent related to the child's upbringing, development and care. The Family Code of Ukraine governs personal proprietary and non-proprietary relations between grandparents, great-grandparents and grandchildren, great-grandchildren, siblings, step-parents and step-children. In cases referred to by Part 2 of Article 23 hereof, a family may be started by a person under the age of marriage. The state shall protect the family, childhood, maternity and paternity, and shall contribute to the strengthening of the family. The state shall provide appropriate conditions for maternity and paternity; shall protect the rights of the mother and the father; and shall provide material and moral incentives and otherwise support maternity and paternity. Family relations shall be regulated with due respect to the right to privacy of personal life and personal freedom and without any arbitrary intervention in the family life. A child shall be able to exercise their rights set forth in the Constitution of Ukraine, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and other applicable international treaties of Ukraine approved by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine as binding. Where personal proprietary and non-proprietary relations between spouses, parents, children and other members of the family or relatives are not explicitly governed by this Code, relevant provisions of the Civil Code of Ukraine shall apply to an extent not contradicting the nature of family relations. Spouses, parents of the child, parents and children, other members of the family and relatives whose relations are governed by this Code may regulate their relationship by an agreement provided, however, that this is not in conflict with this Code, other applicable laws and moral principles of the society. The court resolving the family dispute may, upon the petition of the stakeholder, take into consideration a relevant local custom as well as the custom of the ethnic minority to which a party or the parties belong; provided, however, that this is not in conflict with the provisions of this Code, other applicable laws and moral principles of the society. Family rights are closely associated with the person and therefore may not be assigned to any other person. Family duties are closely associated with the person and therefore may not be assigned to any other person. The guardianship agency shall support the person in the exercise of their family rights and obligations; the scope and procedure for such support are defined by this Code and other applicable regulations. The remedies available for the protection of the family rights and interests include: 1) establishing a legal relationship; 2) forced execution of a duty not executed on a voluntary basis; 3) termination/annulment of the legal relationship; 4) termination of any actions violating family rights; 5) restoration of the legal relationship that existed prior to the infringement; 6) compensation for any material and moral damage if envisaged by this Code or the agreement; A decision made by the guardianship agency shall be binding unless the relevant person went to a court for the protection of their rights or interests within ten days upon the award of such decision, except as otherwise referred to in Part 2, Article 170 of this Code. The guardianship agency represented by a duly authorised legal entity must be involved in the court proceedings related to the participation of either parent in the child care and development, de-registration of the child's place of residence, recognising the child as having lost the right to use the residential property, deprivation and restoration of parental rights, visitation of the child by the parents deprived of parental rights, taking the child from the person holding them not under the applicable law or a court judgment, administration of the child's property by the parents, or cancellation or annulment of adoption. Limitation period shall not be applicable to claims arising out of the family relations referred to in Part 2 of Article 72, Part 2 of Article 129, Part 3 of Article 138, and Part 3 of Article 139 of this Code. Where a woman and a man live together as a family without a registered marriage, this shall not carry rights and obligations of spouses for them. A religious marriage ceremony shall not be considered as the grounds for the marriage rights and duties to arise for the woman and the man unless where such religious ceremony took place prior to the establishment or restoration of the state civil registration authorities. The court may award the right to marry a person who has attained the age of sixteen based upon their application if it is established that this meets their best interests. The court may award the right to marry to the biological child of the adoptive parent and the adopted child, and to the children adopted by such parent. Marriage between the adoptive parent and the child adopted by them may be registered only upon the termination of such adoption. State registration of marriage aims to protect the sustainable relations between the spouses, protect rights and interests of the spouses and their children, as well as interests of the state and the society. Application for marriage registration shall be filed by the woman and the man with any state civil registration office of their choice. If the woman and/or the man cannot file the marriage registration application with the state civil registration office personally for valid reasons, such application, certified by a notary, may be submitted by their representatives. The state civil registration office must explain the rights and obligations as the future spouses and parents to the engaged couple and warn them about the liability for concealing any obstacles to the marriage registration. Concealing any information related to the health of one of the partners that has resulted or may result in any implications of physical or mental health of the other partner or their children may be the grounds for declaring the marriage null and void. Such costs and expenses shall not be subject to reimbursement where such refusal to marry was caused by an illegal or immoral behaviour of the partner or concealing by the partner of any information that is of the essence for the other partner (such as serious illness, having a child, prior criminal record etc.). If there are valid reasons, director of the civil registration office may authorise marriage to be registered earlier. If there is any evidence of any obstacles for the marriage registration, the director of the civil registration office may postpone the marriage registration but for not longer than three months. Upon request of the couple, marriage registration procedure may be conducted at their place or residence, medical treatment facility or elsewhere, if they cannot, for valid reasons, come to the state civil registration office. The couple may opt to choose last name of one of the partners as their mutual last name or not to change their last names after marriage. If the partner has a double last name as of the time of the marriage registration, they may replace either part of their last name with the last name of the other partner. Upon request of the interested person, the state civil registration office shall revoke the marriage registration record for the marriage between the persons referred to in Part 1 to Part 3 of this Article. If the marriage is registered with a person who is already married and the previous marriage is terminated prior to the abrogation of the re-marriage registration record, such re-marriage shall become valid and legitimate immediately upon termination of the previous marriage. The marriage registration record shall be revoked regardless of the death of the persons whose marriage was registered (Part 1 to 3 of this Article) and the marriage termination. A marriage may be declared null and void by court, if entered into: 1) by the adoptive parent and the adopted child in violation of Part 5, Article 26 of this Code; 2) between cousins; between aunt/uncle and nephew/niece; 3) with a person who concealed their serious disease or any disease that was dangerous for the other spouse and/or their descendants; 4) with a person who has not attained the marriage age and has not obtained the right to marry. A marriage may not be declared void if the wife is pregnant or in case of childbirth to the persons referred to in Clauses 1, 2 and 4, Part 1 of this Article, or where the partner who was under the marriage age has reached it or was granted the right to marry. The wife/husband, other persons whose rights have been infringed by registration of this marriage, parents, guardian or caregiver of the child, guardian of the incapable person, prosecutor, or guardianship agency may file a complaint to the court if rights and interests of the child, or the person declared incapable, or the persons whose capability is restricted, need to be protected. A void marriage as defined in Article 39 of this Code, including a marriage declared void by the court, shall not be considered as the grounds for the spousal rights and obligations imposed under the applicable laws of Ukraine to arise between the persons between whom it was registered. If the person was receiving the alimony from their partner in the void marriage, such alimony shall be deemed to have been paid without the appropriate legal grounds and shall be returned in accordance with the Civil Code of Ukraine provided, however, that such period shall not be more than three years. The person who has changed their last name due to the registration of the void marriage shall be deemed to be using this last name without appropriate legal grounds. Legal consequences envisaged by Part 2 to Part 5 of this Article shall apply to the person who was aware of the obstacles for the marriage registration and concealed them from the other party and/or from the state civil registration office. In case a person was not and could not be aware of any obstacles for the marriage registration, they shall have a right to: 1) splitting the property acquired in the void marriage as the joint property of the spouses; 2) live in a separate residential property where they moved in connection with the void marriage; 3) alimony as contemplated in Articles 75, 84, 86 and 88 of this Code; 4) have the last name they selected when registering the marriage. Wife's unwillingness or inability to give birth to a child may be the grounds for termination of the marriage. The wife and the husband shall have an equal right to physical and mental development, education, display of their skills, and appropriate conditions for work and rest. If the wife and/or husband decided to keep their last names unchanged after the marriage registration, they may file a statement that they are willing to use the last name of either spouse as their family name or to add the last name of the other spouse to their own last name, to the state civil registration office that registered their marriage or the relevant office at their place of residence. Right of wife and husband to share chores and jointly decide on the family matters 1. Wife and husband shall jointly take care of their relationship as a family as well as relations with other family members based on love, respect, friendship and support. Property that is in private ownership of wife or husband includes: 1) any property acquired by them before getting married; 2) any property acquired by them in marriage under a gift agreement or as heritage; 3) any property acquired by them in marriage with their own money; 4) any accommodation acquired by them in marriage as a result of privatisation under the Law of Ukraine on Privatisation of the State Housing Stock; 5) a land plot acquired by them during the marriage through privatisation of a land plot that was in their use or was obtained through privatisation of land plots owned by the state and community agricultural enterprises, or allotted from state or community-owned land as part of free privatisation as set out in the Land Code of Ukraine. Insurance proceeds obtained by the wife/husband under the voluntary compulsory personal insurance agreements or voluntary personal insurance agreements shall be the personal property of the wife/husband provided, however, that insurance contributions were paid with the money that was the personal property of such spouse. Court may recognise that any property acquired by either spouse while living separately from the other spouse due to the end of the marriage as such, is the private property of such spouse. If any money owned by either spouse was contributed to buying the property in addition to any jointly owned money, such contributing spouse shall have the personal title to the share of the property equivalent to their contribution. Any property acquired by the spouses in marriage shall be jointly owned by the wife and the husband regardless if either spouse did not make their own income for a valid reason (studies, household matters, children care, sickness etc.). If property of the wife/husband has significantly grown in value during the marriage due to shared contribution of efforts or money or contribution of the other spouse and a dispute arose in connection with any such property, the court may award that such property is in joint ownership of the spouses. Share transfer agreement for transfer by either spouse of their share of the jointly owned property to the other spouse may be executed without separation of this share. Any agreement executed by either spouse for the benefit of the family shall impose obligations upon the other spouse if the property acquired under such agreement is used for the benefit of the family. Agreement governing the use of a residential house, apartment, other building or structure or a land plot, shall impose obligations upon the legal successor of the spouses provided that it is duly certified by a notary. The wife/husband may enter into an agreement for purchase, exchange, donation, perpetual maintenance/care or lien with any person regarding their share in the property jointly owned by the spouses only upon the designation and segregation of such share in kind, or upon the determination of the property use procedure. The wife/husband may execute the will for their share in the property jointly owned by the spouses prior to the designation and segregation of such share in kind. If any property that is jointly owned by the spouses is divided, the shares allotted to the spouses shall be equal unless otherwise envisaged by an agreement between them or the marriage contract. Either spouse may be awarded financial compensation instead of their share of any jointly owned assets such as a residential house, apartment or land plot only upon their consent, unless where otherwise envisaged by the Civil Code of Ukraine. Property that is jointly owned by the spouses, where the competent court has established that the agreement was executed by either spouse to serve the best interests of the family and the proceeds thereunder have been used to support the needs of the family, shall not be foreclosed. In case of reimbursement of damage caused by a criminal offence committed by either spouse foreclosure may apply to the property acquired during the marriage, if the court has established that the property was acquired with the proceeds of such criminal offence. In case a woman and a man live together as a family but are not married to each other or to anyone else, any property acquired by them while living together shall be their joint property unless otherwise defined in a written agreement between them. After the termination of the marriage a former spouse shall be entitled to maintenance if they became incapacitated prior to the divorce or within one year upon the day of the divorce, and is in need of material support, provided, however, that their former spouse is in position to provide such support. A person shall also be entitled to spousal maintenance if they gained any disabilities even upon the expiry of one-year term after the divorce, if the disability has resulted from the illegal behaviour of their ex-spouse against such person committed in marriage. In case due to providing care for the child, household matters, providing care for the family, sickness or for any other important reasons, either spouse was not able to get an education, get employed, or take a relevant job, they shall be entitled to maintenance in connection with the divorce even when they are capable, provided that they are in need of financial support and the former spouse is capable of that. Maintenance shall be provided to either spouse by the other spouse in kind or as a monetary compensation as agreed by and between both spouses. If the payer moves for permanent residence to any country with Ukraine has no legal aid agreement, alimony may be paid in advance for the entire duration agreed by and between the spouses or, in case of a dispute, by competent court. If the relevant spouse fails to meet their alimony obligation under the alimony agreement, alimony may be collected under an executive order of the notary. If the claimant was seeking to obtain alimony from the defendant but was not successful due to the defendant's evasion from making such payments, the court may, depending on the circumstances in the case, award that alimony shall be ordered retroactive provided, however, that such retroactive period is not longer than one year. If either spouse receives alimony due to their disability, alimony shall continue to be paid until such disability persists. Right of either spouse to financial support, including to post-divorce spousal maintenance, shall terminate upon the recovery of their capacity and registration of a new marriage. If the court-ordered alimony continues in force upon the termination of the right to maintenance, all money received as alimony shall be deemed to have been received without due legal grounds and shall be returned in full, however, for the period that is no longer than three years. Right of the either spouse to the court-ordered alimony may be terminated by the court if it is found that: 1) the recipient is no longer in need of material support; 2) the payer is not capable of providing material support. Court may deprive either spouse of the right to maintenance or restrict its duration, if: 1) spouses were married for a short period of time; 2) the spouse who is in need of material support has become incapacitated due to a criminal offence intentionally committed by such spouse; 3) incapacitation or serious illness of the spouse who is in need of material support was concealed from the other spouse as of the time of marriage registration; 4) alimony receiver deliberately put themselves in a position of being in need of financial support. If the wife is pregnant and/or lives with the child regardless of her employment status or financial status, she shall be entitled to maintenance provided, however, that the husband is capable of providing such support. The wife's right to maintenance under Article 84 of this Code shall terminate in case of the pregnancy termination, if the child is born dead, given to another person for raising, or in case of the child's death. The husband's right to maintenance shall terminate if his wife's name as the mother was removed from the child's birth registration record under the relevant court judgment. If either spouse, whether or not capable to work, lives with a child with disabilities who requires permanent care, and provides care for such child, such spouse shall be entitled to maintenance provided, however, that the other spouse is capable of providing such support. Spouses and ex-spouses may enter into a maintenance termination agreement in lieu of a title to a residential house, apartment or another real estate, or a one-off payment. If it has been agreed that the right to maintenance shall be terminated by the one-off payment, the agreed amount must be credited to the account deposit of the notary office or private notary before the agreement is certified. If partners who are not married to each other have been living together as a family for a long time the partner who became incapable while living together shall be entitled to maintenance in accordance with Article of this Code. Partners who are not married to each other shall be entitled to maintenance if they live together with their child as envisaged by Part 2 to Part 4 of Article 84 as well as Article 86 and 88 of this Code. Right to maintenance shall be terminated on the grounds referred to in Part 2 and Part 4 of Article 83 as well as Article 85, Article 87 and Article 89 of this Code. If the marriage contract is executed prior to the marriage registration, it shall become effective as of the day of the marriage registration. The marriage contract must identify the assets provided by either spouse for the common needs of the family as well as the legal grounds for the use of any assets given to the couple on the occasion of the marriage registration. The parties may come to an agreement that Article 60 of this Code shall not apply to any assets acquired by them during the marriage and that such assets shall be deemed either their common property or personal property of each one of them. If one of the spouses moves into the residential property owned by the other spouse due to the marriage, the parties may define the terms and conditions for the use of such residential property in their marriage contract. The parties may come to an agreement that either spouse will be given maintenance regardless of their capability and need in material support on the applicable terms and conditions encompassed by the marriage contract. In case the marriage contract defines terms, conditions and amount of alimony and where either spouse is in default of their obligation thereunder, alimony may be collected under the executive order issued by the notary. On demand of either spouse, the marriage contract may be terminated if so decided by the competent court in connection with any reasons of essence, such as the impossibility to fulfil such contract. Upon demand of either spouse or any other person whose rights and interests are infringed under the marriage contract, the marriage contract may be declared by a competent court as null and void due to the applicable provisions envisaged in the Civil Code of Ukraine. Marriage shall be terminated by virtue of dissolution upon an application for divorce filed by both spouses in accordance with Article 106 or by either spouse in accordance with Article 107 of this Code. Marriage shall be terminated by competent court upon an application for divorce filed by both spouses in accordance with Article 109 of this Code. The civil registration office shall terminate the marriage based on the application for a divorce filed by either spouse, in case the other spouse: 1) has been declared missing; 2) has been declared incapable. On the basis of an application filed by an interested person in accordance with Article 106 of this Code, a divorce may be declared a sham divorce based on sufficient evidence that the spouses continued living together as a family and had no intention to terminate their family relationship. The competent court shall award a divorce if it is established that the divorce application is in line with the genuine intent of the wife and husband and that their personal and property rights, as well as the rights of their children, will not be affected by divorce. Application for a divorce may not be filed during the wife's pregnancy and within one year upon the childbirth, except where either spouse is demonstrating illegal behaviour that may be classified as a criminal offence against the other spouse or the child. The husband/wife may apply for a divorce during the wife's pregnancy if other person has acknowledged the paternity regarding the conceived child. The husband/wife may apply for a divorce before the child reaches the age of one year if the paternity regarding such child has been acknowledged by another person or if the court awarded an order to remove the name of the husband as the child's father from the childbirth registration record. The person who changed their last name following the marriage registration may choose to continue using that last name or revert to their pre-marriage last name. Upon becoming legally effective and enforceable, the court judgment awarding divorce shall be sent by the court to the state civil registration office with the purpose of making the relevant record in the State Civil Status Register and making a relevant note on the marriage registration record. If the person presumed dead has been found to be alive and the relevant court judgment has been cancelled and the death record has been revoked, their marriage with the other spouse shall be restored provided, however, that neither of them has remarried since. If the person who was declared missing has been found and the relevant court judgment has been cancelled, their marriage with the other spouse may be restored if both spouses apply for it and provided that none of them has remarried since. Based on an application filed by both spouses or a claim filed by either spouse the court may award a judgment for the couple to live apart if living together is not possible or either spouse opposes it. In case the child was born within ten months following the marriage termination, the spouses or former spouses may file to the state civil registration office a joint statement of non-acknowledgement the husband or former husband as the child's father. In case the child was born within ten months following the marriage termination due to death of the husband, parentage may be established on the basis of the joint statement of the mother and the man who claims to be the father. If the child was born within ten months upon the marriage termination or annulment, but in any case following the registration of the marriage of the child's mother to another person, the husband of the child's mother in that new marriage shall be deemed the child's father. When the child's mother and father are not married to each other, paternity shall be established as follows: 1) based on the application of the child's mother and father; 3) by court judgement. If the application for establishing paternity was filed by an underage person, the state civil registration office shall notify the parents, guardian or caregiver of such underage applicant of him being registered as the father of the child. Where it is not possible to give such notice to the parents, guardian or caregiver of the underage person, the state civil registration office must notify the guardianship agency of such underage person being registered as the father. The court shall accept the paternity recognition claim if the record on the child's father on the Birth Registration Book was made in accordance with Part 1, Article 135 of this Code. A person who claims that he is the father of the child born by a woman who was married to another man at the time of the child's conception or birth, may file a paternity claim against her husband if he is registered as the child's father. The court shall accept paternity application if the record on the child's father on the Birth Registration Book was made in accordance with Part 1, Article 135 of this Code. A person who claims to be the child's mother may file an application to establish their maternity if the record on the child's mother was made in accordance with Part 2, Article 135 of this Code. The court shall accept an application for establishing maternity if the record on the child's mother on the Birth Registration Book was made in accordance with Part 2, Article 135 of this Code. If the child is born to a mother who is not married or in the absence of a joint application of the parents or the father or the appropriate court judgment, the mother's last name and citizenship shall be entered in the Birth Registration Book for the child as the relevant information about their father; first name and patronymic of the child's father shall be entered as specified by the child's mother. A person registered as the child's father as envisaged by Article 122, Article 124, Article 126 and Article 127 of this Code may challenge his parenting by submitting a claim to remove his name as the father from the child's birth registration record. Paternity may not be challenged by the person registered as the child's father may not challenge their paternity if at the time of being registered as the child's father he was aware that he was not the child's father, nor by the person who agreed to the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies as referred to in Part 1, Article 123 of this Code. If the person registered as the child's father died after submitting a claim to get his name as the child's father removed from the child's birth registration record, the claim may thereafter be supported by heirs of such person. A woman who gave birth to a child in wedlock may challenge the paternity of her husband by submitting a claim to get his name as the child's father removed from the child's birth registration record. Collecting the child support from the person registered as the father/mother shall not impede filing a claim to a court in order to get such person's name as the child's father/mother removed from the child's birth registration record. The mother and the father of the child who are married to each other must take the child from the maternity hospital or other health care facility. The father who is not married to the child's mother and whose name appears on the child's birth certificate as the father or whose paternity is recognised by the court, must, when given a notice by the child care authorities according to the applicable procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, take the child from the maternity hospital or other healthcare facility if not otherwise done by the mother, and raise and bring the child up. The parents must immediately, but in any case not later than one months following the child's birth date, get the child's birth registered with the state civil registration office. In case of death of the parents or where they are otherwise unable to register the child's birth, the child's birth shall be registered based upon the application of the relatives, other persons, or duly authorised representative of the health care facility where the child was born or where the child currently is. The child's birth shall be registered by the state civil registration office that shall concurrently decide on the child's origin, last name, first name and patronymic. A dispute between the parents regarding the child's last name may be resolved by a custodianship agency or the competent court. Patronymic of the child born to an unmarried woman shall derive from the name of the person named by the child's mother as the father, provided that the paternity has not been acknowledged. In the event that both parents change their last name the last name of the child who has reached the age of sever shall be changed subject to the child's consent. Upon request of both parents or either parent if the other parent died, was presumed dead or declared incapable or missing, the child who has not reached the age of fourteen and who received the last name of either parent during the birth registration may opt to change their last name to the last name of other parent. The child who has reached the age of fourteen may change their patronymic with the consent of either parent in case the other parent died, was declared missing, was presumed dead, was declared as having limited capability or incapable, or their parenting rights regarding this child were terminated, or if the name of the child's mother/father was removed from their birth registration record, or if the name of the husband as the child's father was entered into their birth registration record upon application submitted by the mother. Physical punishment of the child by the parents, including the use of any other forms of punishment that are humiliating human dignity, shall be prohibited. Child's right to proper parental care shall be ensured by the state control envisaged by the applicable law. The child may address the guardianship agency, other state authorities, local governments and NGOs for the protection of their rights and interests. The parents may apply to the court, state authorities, local governments and NGOs for the protection of the rights and interests of the child, including an incapacitated child, as their lawful representatives; this shall not require any special authorisations. The parents may apply for the protection of the rights and interests of the children even when the children may seek such protection themselves under the applicable law. The parents shall exercise their rights and obligations based on the principle of respect to the child's rights and their human dignity. The underage parents shall have the same scope of rights and obligations regarding the child as the adult parents, and may exercise such rights at their own discretion. The non-resident parent must be involved in the child-rearing and shall be entitled to personally communicate with the child. The parent who was awarded to be the resident parent by the court judgment or opinion of the guardianship agency, except the parent being subjected to the enforcement of the judgment regarding the child visitation and removing obstacles to the child visitation, shall, at their own discretion, resolve any matters related to travelling outside Ukraine for no longer than one month for the purpose that includes medical treatment, education, participation of the child in children's competitions, festivals, scientific shows, student Olympiads and contests, environmental, technical, art, tourism, research and sports events, child's recreation abroad, including as part of an organised tour, and if they are aware of the place of residence of the other parent who is duly performing their parental duty, shall notify such other parent by sending them a postage-prepaid letter about the child temporarily traveling outside Ukraine; such notice shall include the purpose of travel, travel destination and period of stay in the destination country. The parent who was awarded to be the resident parent by the court judgment or opinion of the guardianship agency shall, at their own discretion, resolve any matters related to travelling outside Ukraine for one month and longer for the purpose that includes medical treatment, education, participation of the child in children's competitions, festivals, scientific shows, student Olympiads and contests, environmental, technical, art, tourism, research and sports events, child's recreation abroad, including as part of an organised tour, in case of: 1) any child support in arrears where the total amount in arrears exceeds the amount of the relevant payments for four months as evidenced by the child support arrears certificate; 2) any child support in arrears where the total amount in arrears exceeds the amount of the relevant payments for three months in case the child support is paid in support of the child with disabilities or the child having serious perinatal damage of the nervous system, serious inborn developmental defects, rare orphan disease, cancer, blood cancer, cerebral palsy, serious mental disorders, Type 1 diabetes (insulin-dependent), acute or chronic kidney injury (level IV); or for the support of the child who received a serious injury, is in need for organ transplantation or is in need of palliative care as confirmed by the document issued by the If the resident parent is opposing the communication between the child and the non-resident parent and the involvement of the non-resident parent in the child-rearing, in particular, when such resident parent is not willing to comply with the decision awarded by the guardianship agency, the other parent may seek the removal of such obstacles in court. A dispute regarding the participation of either parent in child-rearing shall be resolved with due regard to the parent's attitude to their duties, personal affection of the child to each parent, age and health of the child as well as any other important circumstances, including the mental health status and alcohol or drug abuse by either parent. If the resident parent is not willing to comply with the court judgment, the court, based on the application filed by the non-resident parent, may award that the child shall live with such parent. In case the custody of the child may not be awarded to any of these persons, the court shall, on demand of the guardianship agency, award the child to be taken from the person the child lives with and be given in custody of the guardianship agency. If either parent or any other person has, without the authorisation of the other parent or other persons with whom a minor was living on the basis of the applicable law or by virtue of the court order, or a child care facility where the child was living based on the decision of the guardianship agency, changes the minor's place of residence, including by way of kidnapping, the court may be based on a complaint filed by the interested person, immediately order to get hold of the child and return the child to the previous place of residence. The court may terminate parental rights of either parent if such parent: 1) did not take the child from the maternity hospital or any other healthcare facility without a valid reason and was not providing any parental care to the child within six months; 2) evades their duties regarding the child's upbringing and/or their complete general secondary education; 3) is abusing the child; 4) is a chronic alcoholic or drug addict; 5) exploits the child in any way, including forcing the child into begging and vagrancy; 6) was convicted for committing an intentional criminal offence against the child. The mother/father may be deprived of parental rights under Clauses 2, 4 and 5, Part 1 of this Article only upon reaching the age of majority. If the court reveals any signs of a criminal offence in actions taken by both parents or either parent when considering termination of parental rights, the court shall give a written notice of the same to the pre-trial investigation office that shall initiate pre-trial investigation following the procedure set forth by the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. Person whose parental rights were terminated shall: 1) lose any and all personal non-property rights related to the child and shall be released from the duty to upbring the child; 2) cease to be the legitimate representative of the child; 3) lose the right to any benefits and state support provided to families with children; 4) not be allowed to be an adoptive parent, custodian or caregiver; 5) may not acquire the property rights related to parenthood that they would be eligible to acquire in case of their incapacity (including but not limited to the right to maintenance from the child, right to a pension, right to damage compensation in case of loss of the caregiver, and right of inheritance; 6) lose any other rights that are based on the consanguinity with the child. When the mother, father or other legal representatives of the child refuse to receive child support from the person whose parental rights are terminated, the court shall award an order that the child support is transferred to the child's personal account with the State Savings Bank of Ukraine, and shall oblige the mother, father or other legal representatives of the child to open such personal account within one month upon the entry into force of such court award. If the child cannot be given to the other parent, the grandparents, adult siblings, other relatives of the child including step-parents shall have a preferential right for raising the child, upon their written request. If the child cannot be given to the grandparents, adult siblings, other relatives of the child including step-parents, they shall be given to the guardianship agency. The child who has been given to their relatives, step-parents or the guardianship agency shall have the right to continue living in the residential property where they used to live in, and may return to such property at any given time. The mother/father whose parental rights were terminated may apply to court for the reinstatement of their parental rights. The court shall verify the extent to which the behaviour of the person whose parental rights were terminated has changed as well as investigate the circumstances that led to the termination of parental rights, and shall award a judgment that suits the child's interests. The court may award an order to take the child away from the parent(s) without terminating their parental rights in cases referred to in Clauses 2 to 5, Part 1, Article 164 of this Code, and in other cases where leaving the child with them poses a threat to the child's life, health and morality. In exceptional cases where there is a direct threat to the child's life or health, the guardianship agency or the prosecutor may award an order to take the child away from the parents immediately. In this case, the guardianship agency must immediately give notice of the same to the prosecutor and within seven days upon awarding the order apply to the court with a petition to terminate parental rights of the parent(s) or to take the child away from the parent(s) without terminating their parental rights. In case of any dispute regarding any property ownership between the parents and the minor/underage children the property shall be deemed to be owned by parents unless otherwise established by the court. The property acquired by the parent(s) with the purpose of the child's development, education and upbringing (such as clothing, personal items, toys, books, musical instruments, sports equipment etc.) shall be owned by the child. In case of segregation of a share from the jointly owned property, it shall be deemed that shares of each joint owner in such jointly owned property are equal unless otherwise determined by an agreement between them, applicable law or the court judgment. If a share in the jointly owned property cannot be segregated in kind (part 2, Article 183 of the Civil Code of Ukraine) the children entitled to a share of the property in kind may receive from other joint owners a monetary or otherwise material compensation equivalent to the value of such share. The guardianship agency may dismiss any transactions relate to the child's real estate and request a notary to prohibit any future assignment of such property only when the guardianship agency has established any of the following: 1) parental rights of the child's mother and/or father who applied for the permission were terminated by the court under Article 164 of this Code; 2) the court, guardianship agency or prosecutor awarded an order to take the child from the parents (or the parent who applied for permission) without terminating their parental rights as envisaged under Article 170 of this Code; 3) any persons referred to in Article 165 of this Code filed a claim to terminate the parental rights of the child's parents (or the parent who applied for permission); 4) the person who applied for permission reported any incorrect information about themselves that are essential for granting or dismissing the permission; 5) the child's parents have not reached an agreement on the transaction involving the child's real estate; 6) there are court proceedings pending between the child's parents or either parent and third parties regarding the real estate which is the subject-matter of the transaction the child's parents (or either parent) are seeking to carry out; 7) the transaction will result in the reduction of the scope of property rights of the Poor performance by the parents of their duty to manage the child's property shall be grounds for their obligation to reimburse the material damage caused by them to the child and return to them any proceeds of the property management. The underage child shall use the proceeds of their property in accordance with the Civil Code of Ukraine. The parent or lawful representative of the child who is the child support recipient shall use the child support only according to the intended purpose and for the child's benefit. The underage child may receive and administer the child support payments at their own discretion in accordance with the Civil Code of Ukraine. If upon the entry into force of the court judgment awarding child support to be collected from either parent such parent moves for permanent residence to a country with which Ukraine does not have a legal aid agreement in place, the court may award that the child support for the entire period until the child reaches the age of majority is collected from such parent before they leave Ukraine. If upon the entry into force of the court judgment awarding child support to be collected for the entire period until the child reaches the age of majority the child support payer continues to reside in Ukraine or returns to Ukraine for permanent residence, or any circumstances that were of relevance for determining the child support amount have changed, the court may award collecting child support on periodical basis taking into account the amount that has already been paid. The court shall take the following into consideration when deciding on the alimony amount: 1) health and financial status of the child; 2) health and financial status of the payer; 3) whether or not the payer has any other children or incapable spouse, parents or children; 3-1) whether or not the payer owns, possesses and/or uses any property and property rights, including any movable property, real estate, money, exclusive rights for any intellectual property or corporate rights; 3-2) costs and expenses of the payer proven by the receiver, including in connection with the acquisition of any movable property or real estate where the value of such acquisition exceeds the ten subsistence wages of a capable person, provided that they payer has not proven the origin of their income; 4) any other circumstances of essence. If child support is collected in favour of two children and more, the court shall determine the single share of the mother's/father's income that shall be collected for the support of the children until the eldest child reaches the age of majority. The parent or other lawful representative with whom the child lives may apply to the court for a court order awarding child support to be collected as follows: one-fourth of the income of the payer per one child, one third per two children, and one half of their income per three children and more; however, not more than ten subsistence wages for the child of the relevant age per each child. The amount of child support determined by the court or agreed between the parents as a fixed amount shall be subject to annual indexation in accordance with applicable law, unless otherwise agreed by the alimony payer and receiver. The parent or other lawful representative with whom the child lives may apply to the court and seek a court order awarding the collection of child support equivalent to 50% of the subsistence wage for the child of the relevant age. Either parent may file an application to their employer or pension/stipend payment center for the deduction of the child support from their salary/pension/stipend in the amount and for the duration specified in the application. Based upon the application of either parent, the child support may be deducted even when the total amount to be deducted according to the application and the executive orders exceed half of their salary/pension/stipend, or when they are already paying child support for the benefit of another child. The recipient of the child support may file an application and the executive order on child support to be paid from the payer's salary/pension/stipend or another source of income directly to the organisation that is paying the payer's salary/pension/stipend. Based on the application filed by such person, child support shall be deducted from the payer's salary/pension/stipend or any other source of income in the amount specified in the order and on time referred to in part 2 of this Article, and shall be transferred to the designated recipient as indicated in the application. Upon approval of the guardianship agency, the resident parent and the non-resident parent may execute an agreement terminating the right to child support in connection with the transfer of title to real estate, including, without limitation, residential property, apartment, land plot etc. Agreement made in accordance with Part 1 of this Article shall be declared null and void by the court based on the real estate's transferor if their name as the father is removed from the child's birth registration record. Based on the claim filed by the transferor of the real estate, the agreement executed in accordance with Part 1 of this Article may be terminated if the resident parent is in default of their obligation to provide for the child. Placing the child to a health care facility, educational setting or any other facility shall not terminate the collection of child support for the benefit of the parent with whom the child lived prior to such placement, provided that the child support is used as intended. Part 1 to Part 3 of this Article and Article 195 to Article 197 of this Code shall also apply to the maintenance collection for the benefit of other persons referred to in this Code. If child support goes into arrears through the fault of the payer obliged to pay such support under the court order or as agreed between the parents, the receiver shall be entitled to accrue the fine of one percent of such outstanding child support amount for every day of delay, such late payment fine to commence on the day when the child support went into arrears and until the outstanding payment is made in full or until the court awards an order to collect the fine; provided, however, that it shall not exceed 100% of the amount due and payable. Where any additional expenses for the child went into arrears through the payer's fault, the payer must, on demand of the additional expenses receiver, pay the outstanding amount of such additional expenses taking using the applicable inflation index for the entire duration the payment remained in arrears plus three percent per annum on the outstanding amount. Based on the claim filed by the payee, the court may fully or partially release the payee from the obligation to pay child support arrears if such arrears arose due to the payer's serious disease or otherwise for a valid reason. The court shall determine the amount of child support for the adult daughter/son as a fixed amount and/or as a share of the payer's income with due regard of the circumstances referred to in Article 182 of this Code. For the purpose of setting the amount of child support to be provided by either parent, the court shall consider whether the other parent or spouse and adult children are capable of providing maintenance. The court may release the daughter/son from the duty to provide for the mother/father and to contribute to their additional expenses if it has been established that the mother/father were evading from the parental duties. Daughter/son shall be released from the obligation to maintain their mother/father and contribute to any additional expenses if it has been established that the mother/father never provided any child support and this led to the arrears the total amount of which is more than the total amount of the relevant payments over the period of three years, and that such payments remained in arrears as of the court judgment on the amount of support to be provided for the parents. When determining the amount of maintenance and additional payments, the court shall also consider whether maintenance may also be provided by other children against whom no maintenance collection claim was filed or by spouses or parents. In exceptional cases, when the mother/father is seriously ill or has a disability and the child (Article 6 of this Code) has a sufficient income the court may award an order to collect from the child, as a one-off payment or from time to time during a certain period, payments to cover the expenses related to treatment and medical care for the parent. Adoption is taking by the adoptive parent of a person to the adoptive parent's family as the daughter/son under the relevant court judgment, except as otherwise contemplated in Article 282 of this Code. In exceptional cases the court may award the adoption of an adult person who does not have a mother/father or was deprived of parental care. The child who was left in the maternity hospital or any other healthcare facility or who was not taken by their parents or other relatives may be adopted upon reaching the age of two months. The adoptive parent must be a capable person at least twenty-one years old, except where the adoptive parent is the relative of the child. If the child has either mother or father only whose legal connection with the child is terminated by virtue of adoption, the adoptive parent may be a single man or a single woman. Persons not eligible for becoming adoptive parents: The following categories of persons may not adopt a child: 1) persons with limited capacity; 2) persons declared as incapable; 3) persons whose parental rights were terminated and not reinstated; 4) persons who were previously adoptive parents (or guardians, custodians or foster parents as applicable) of another child but the adoption (or guardianship, custodianship or foster care as applicable) was terminated or annulled through their fault; 5) persons who are registered with or being treated at a neuropsychological or drug treatment department; 6) persons who are addicted to drugs or alcohol; 7) persons who do not have a permanent place of residence and stable income; 8) persons who have any diseases or illnesses that appear on the list approved by the central executive agency making the state healthcare policy; 9) persons who are foreign nationals who are not married, unless where the foreign national is the relative of the child; 10) persons who were convicted for criminal offences against someone's life and health, freedom, honour and dignity, sexual freedom and sexual inviolability, public security, public order and morality Directors of the facilities where children who may be adopted or given in custody, guardianship or placed in a foster family are housed; official staff of guardianship agencies; and any other persons who became aware of any orphan children and children deprived of parental care, must, within seven business days, report this to the relevant departments of the raion and district state administration in Kyiv and Sevastopol and executive committees of city and city district councils. In case no one volunteered to adopt the child or have the child in custody, the raion and district state administrations in Kyiv and Sevastopol and executive committees of city and city district councils shall, within one month upon receiving the reported information must report the same to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Oblast, Kyiv and Sevastopol city state administrations. In case no one volunteered to adopt the child or have the child in custody, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Oblast, Kyiv and Sevastopol city state administrations shall, within one month upon receiving the information about the children who may be adopted, send such information to the central executive agency implementing the state policy on adoption and protection of children's rights for centralised registration. Registration of the persons willing to adopt a child shall be conducted by departments of raion and district state administrations in Kyiv and Sevastopol and executive committees of city and city district councils that shall be directly managing any matters pertinent to guardianship and custody; by the executive agency of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the matters of family and children; Kyiv and Sevastopol city state administrations; as well as the central executive agency implementing the state policy on adoption and protection of children's rights according to the procedure set out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The citizens of Ukraine residing outside Ukraine and foreign nationals willing to adopt a child shall be registered by the central executive agency implementing the state policy on adoption and protection of children's rights according to the applicable procedure imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Any mediation or commercial services in relation of adoption, custody, guardianship or foster care of children in families of Ukrainian or foreign nationals shall be prohibited. Adoption of the child requires their consent if the child has reached the age and the stage of development to be capable of expressing such consent. The child may be adopted without consent of the parents, if the parents: 1) are unknown; 2) were declared missing; 3) were declared incapable; 4) were deprived of parental rights in regard of the child being adopted; 5) within two months following the childbirth did not take the child to the family and the record about them in the Birth Registration Book is made in accordance with Article 135 of this Code. The child may be adopted without the consent of the adult parents if the court established that the parents have not been living together with the child for over six months without any valid reasons, and do not provide parental care and support to the child. Adoption may be awarded without the consent of the guardian/custodian or the guardianship agency, if the court has established that adoption meets the child's best interests. Adoption may be awarded without the consent of the facility, if the court has established that adoption meets the child's best interests. The court awarding a judgment on adoption shall take into consideration circumstances that are of relevance, including but not limited to: 1) health condition, financial status, family status of the person who is willing to adopt the child, living conditions and attitude to child-rearing; 2) motives why the person is willing to adopt the child; 3) motives why the other spouse is not willing to be the adoptive parent, if the adoption application was filed by one spouse only; 4) connection between the person willing to adopt the child and the child, as well as how long the person has been caring for the child; 5) personality and health condition of the child; 6) attitude of the child to the person who is willing to adopt them. The person shall have a right to keep confidential the fact of being on the list of persons willing to adopt a child, searching for a child to be adopted, filing an adoption application, and court judgment on the adoption. The adoptive parent shall have the right to conceal the fact of adoption from the adopted child, and require that this information is kept confidential by any persons who became aware of such adoption prior to and after the child reaches the age of majority. Persons who in connection with their service duty have become aware of the adoption (including that the persons willing to adopt the child are on the list of persons willing to adopt a child, searching for a child to be adopted, filing an adoption application, supervision of the rights of the adopted child etc.), as well as any other persons who became aware of the adoption, must keep such information confidential, even when the child is aware of the adoption. If the adopted is the child who has reached the age of seven, their consent shall be required to register the adoptive parent as the mother/father, except as otherwise envisaged in Part 4, Article 218 of this Code. The person who filed the adoption application may request that information about the child's place of birth and date of birth be changed. In the judgment awarding the adoption, the court shall change the information about the child's place of birth and date of birth if it meets the child's interests. Where the person who has reached the age of majority is adopted, their first name, last name and patronymic may be changed in connection with the adoption based on the application of the adoptive parent and the person adopted. When the child is adopted by one person these rights and obligations may be preserved upon request of the mother if the adoptive parent is a man, or upon request of the father if the adoptive parent is a woman. In case following the death of either parent of the child or termination of marriage with the person who was acknowledged by the court as incapable the other parent of the child married again and their new spouse are willing to adopt the child, the child's grandparents from the side of the parent who died or was declared incapable or full siblings of the child may apply to the court and request that the legal relationship is preserved between themselves and the child being adopted. Adoption imposes the rights and obligations upon the adoptive parent regarding the adopted child in the same scope as for the parents of the child. The court shall declare adoption void if it took place without the consent of the child and the parents, provided that such consent was required. In case adoption is declared void, any and all rights and obligations that have previously arisen and are imposed under the applicable law for the adoptive parent, their relatives and the adopted child shall terminate. In case adoption is declared void, the child who has not reached the age of fourteen shall be given to the parents or other relatives who have requested this. In case adoption is declared void and the child has reached the age of fourteen, their place of residence shall be determined with their consent. The court may award to annul adoption in the following cases: 1) adoption is not supporting the child's interests and does not provide the child with family care; 2) the child has a mental disorder or other serious disease that cannot be cured and the adoptive parent was not and could not be aware of that at the time of adoption; 3) regardless of the intentions of the adoptive parent, the relationship between the adoptive parent and the child make their co-habitation and parental care by the adoptive parent not possible. Adoption may be annulled after the child reaches the age of majority if the illegal behaviour of the adopted child or the adoptive parent poses a threat to the life or health of the adoptive parent, adopted child or any other members of the family. Adoption annulment shall terminate any and all rights and obligations that have arisen between the child and the adoptive parent and their relatives in connection with the adoption. Where adoption is annulled for the reasons referred to in Clause 1, Part 1, Article 238 of this Code and provided that the child is not given to the parents, the child shall retain the right to live in the residential property where they lived following the adoption. In case adoption is terminated under Clause 1, Part 1, Article 238 of this Code and where the child is not given to their parents, the court may award a judgment to collect child support from the former adoptive parent; provided, however, that such former adoptive parent is capable of doing so. Parents, adoptive parent, guardian, caregiver, guardianship agency, prosecutor or the adopted child themselves upon reaching the age of fourteen may apply to the court seeking adoption to be annulled or declared void. Following the entry into force of the court award to declare adoption void or to annul adoption, the court must within one month send a copy of the judgment to the state civil registration office at the child's place of residence. Custody shall be provided for the child under the age of fourteen while guardianship shall be provided for the child aged fourteen to eighteen. The child in custody or guardianship shall have the right to: 1) live in the family of their guardian/custodian and receive care from them; 2) appropriate conditions for their comprehensive development, education, care and respect to their human dignity; 3) continue using the accommodation where they resided prior to the custody or guardianship. Rights of the orphaned child and the child deprived of parental care living in a healthcare facility, educational setting, other child care centre or an adoptive family 1. The orphaned child and the child deprived of parental care living in a healthcare facility, educational setting, other child care centre or an adoptive family shall be entitled to: 1) comprehensive development, upbringing, education and respect of their human dignity; 2) protection of the right to use the residential property where the child used to live. Civil rights and obligations of the guardian/caregiver shall be governed by the Civil Code of Ukraine. Guardianship/custodianship shall terminated in the cases referred to by the Civil Code of Ukraine. A person may be released from the duty of the guardian/custodian in cases referred to by the Civil Code of Ukraine or when the relationship between the guardian/custodian and the child are detrimental for guardianship/custody. Foster care of the child means temporary placing the child in the foster family that provides care, upbringing and rehabilitation of the child while the child, their parents or any other legitimate representatives are overcoming any life challenges. The foster parent is the person who, with involvement of the family members, provides care, upbringing and rehabilitation of the child in the foster family. In the event that it is reasonable that the child stays in the foster family for a longer period, the guardianship agency may extend the duration of such stay. The guardianship agency shall place the child going through life challenges to the foster family under the child foster care agreement. In case the guardianship agency makes a decision that the child shall be returned to their parents or other lawful representatives, or shall be adopted, or shall be taken in custody, or shall be placed in a foster family, adoptive family or foster home, or a child care facility, educational setting or any other institution, and in case the child reaches the age of majority, or in the event of the death of the child or the foster parent, the child foster care agreement shall be terminated. The child shall be placed in a foster family without the consent of the parents or lawful representatives if the child was taken away from them, or their location is unknown, or there is a direct threat to the child's life or health. The foster parent must: 1) provide the child with accommodation, clothing, food etc.; 2) create appropriate conditions for the child's education and physical and mental development; 3) cooperate with the parents and other lawful representatives of the child to overcome the life challenges in the scope and using the methods defined by the guardianship agency; 4) provide the services referred to in the child foster care agreement; 5) facilitate the child's communication with their parents, lawful representatives or relatives, except where parental rights of the parent were terminated or the court restricted the parents' right to communicate with the child. Adoptive family is a family that voluntarily adopted one to four orphan children and children deprived of parental care. Adopted children are orphan children and children deprived of parental care adopted by the adoptive family. The child's consent to be placed in a foster family shall be given to an official staff member of the facility where the child is staying, in presence of the adoptive parents and a representative of the guardianship agency, and shall be recorded in the relevant document. Upon reaching the age of eighteen and in case of studying at a general secondary education facility, vocational school or higher education facility, such persons may, at their own discretion, continue to live in the adoptive family until they graduate from such educational facility. Orphan children and children deprived of parental care who have disabilities may, at their own discretion, continue to live in the adoptive family until they reach the age of twenty-three regardless of whether they are studying at a general secondary education facility, vocational school or higher education facility. A foster home means a separate family created by the spouses or a single person to provide family care and accommodation for at least five orphan children and children deprived of parental care. Caregivers are spouses or a single person who are providing care and accommodation to orphan children and children deprived of parental care. Upon reaching the age of eighteen and in case of studying at a general secondary education facility, vocational school or higher education facility, such persons may, at their own discretion, continue to live in the foster home until they graduate from such educational facility. Orphan children and children deprived of parental care who have disabilities may, at their own discretion, continue to live in the foster home until they reach the age of twenty-three regardless of whether they are studying at a general secondary education facility, vocational school or higher education facility. The foster parents and the state agency that made the decision to establish a foster home shall enter into an agreement establishing the foster home based on the standard agreement template. The grandparents may seek the protection of their minor, underage and adult incapable grandchildren by the guardianship agency or the court; this shall not require any special authorisations. The sibling or step-parent may seek the protection of their minor, underage and adult incapable sibling or step-child by the guardianship agency or the court; this shall not require any special authorisations. The person who is fostering an orphan child or a child deprived of parental care shall have the rights and obligations regarding raising and protecting this child as envisaged by Article 249 and Article 262 of this Code. The sibling and step-parent shall have the right to protect their minor, underage and adult incapable siblings and step-children. The sibling or step-parent may seek the protection of their minor, underage and adult incapable sibling or step-child by the guardianship agency or the court; this shall not require any special authorisations. The adult grandchildren/great-grandchildren must provide for the incapable grandparents/great-grandparents who are in need of financial support and if they do not have the husband/wife or adult children or where these persons for valid reasons are not able to provide sufficient support; provided, however, that such adult grandchildren/great-grandchildren are able to provide such financial support. The adult siblings must provide for their minor/underage siblings who are in need of financial support and if they do not have parents/spouse, or where these persons for valid reasons are not able to provide sufficient support; provided, however, that such adult siblings are able to provide such financial support. The adult siblings must provide for the incapable adult siblings who are in need of financial support, if they do not have spouse/parents or adult children; provided, however, that the adult siblings are able to provide such financial support. The adult step-child must provide for the incapable step-parent if they are in need of financial support and if they were providing financial support to the step-child on regular basis for at least five years; provided, however, that the step-child is able to provide such financial support. If the person lived with their relatives or any other persons prior to reaching the age of majority, the person must provide for the incapable relatives and other persons with whom they lived together for at least five years; provided, however, that the person is able to provide the financial support. Determining the maintenance arrears to be collected from other members of the family and relatives Full or partial release from the obligation to pay arrears Determining the maintenance arrears to be collected from other members of the family and relatives as well as full or partial release from the arrears payment liability shall be governed by the applicable provisions contained in Article 194 to Article 197 of this Code. If the adoptive parent is not a citizen of Ukraine, adoption of the child who is a citizen of Ukraine requires the consent of the central executive agency implementing the state policy on adoption and protection of children's rights. Adoption by a foreign national of a child who is a citizen of Ukraine done through the relevant state authorities of the country where the child is residing shall be valid provided the prior consent of the central executive agency implementing the state policy on adoption and protection of children's rights. Adoption may take place earlier and before the child reaches the age of five, if: 1) the adoptive parent is the child's relative; 2) the child has a disease that is included on the special list of diseases approved by the central executive agency making the state healthcare policy; 3) all full siblings are adopted in the same family, if one of the children has reached the age of five and has been registered with the central executive agency implementing the state policy on adoption and protection of children's rights for at least one year; 4) foreign nationals are willing to adopt the child who is a sibling of the child earlier adopted by them. The central executive agency implementing the state policy on adoption and protection of children's rights shall, in accordance with the applicable procedure set by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, contact the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to verify the foreign nationals adopting a child who is a citizen of Ukraine for any compromising information from foreign law enforcement authorities and the INTERPOL General Secretariat. Adoption of the child who is a citizen of Ukraine by a citizen of the country with which Ukraine does not have a legal aid agreement in place shall not be secret if adoption is not secret in the country where the adoptive parent resides on a permanent basis and where the child is expected to move. Adoption of the child who is a citizen of Ukraine by a citizen of the country with which Ukraine does not have a legal aid agreement in place, provided that such person does not reside in Ukraine on a permanent basis, shall not be secret. Adoption of a child who is a foreign national or a stateless person by a foreign national in Ukraine shall be under the applicable laws of Ukraine unless otherwise governed by the international treaties of Ukraine. In case the children are adopted by foreign nationals and reside outside Ukraine, the relevant consular section shall, upon assignment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, register these children and supervise that they rights are duly respected until they reach the age of eighteen. Procedure for supervision for the protection of rights of the children adopted by foreign nationals and residing outside Ukraine shall be set out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. 26, Article 204); 3) Decree of the Board of the Verkhovna Rada of the Ukrainian SSR of 29 December 1969 On enactment of the Code on Marriage and Family of the Ukrainian SSR (Bulletin of the Verkhovna Rada of the Ukrainian SSR, 1970, No.